Germany!

Just the person I want to speak with. I have a somewhat crazy idea that I’ve always wanted to try with I/G, but I’ve never actually convinced the other guy to try it. And, what’s worse, it might make you suspicious of me. 

So...do I suggest it?

I’m thinking that this is a low stakes game, not a tournament or anything, and an interesting and unusual move set might make it more fun? That’s my hope anyway.

What is your appetite like for unusual and crazy?
You've whet my appetite, Italy. What's the suggestion?
👍
It seems like there are a lot of ways that could go wrong...I don't see why France would see you approaching/taking Munich--while I do nothing about it--and not immediately feel skittish
Yeah, I can’t say I’ve tried it and it works, cause I’ve never tried it or seen it. But how I think it would work is (a) my Spring move looks like an attack on Austria, so it would not be surprising if you did not cover Munich. Then (b) you build two armies, which looks like we’re really at war and you’re going to eject me. Then we launch the attack in Spring. So there is really no part of this that would raise alarm bells with France.

All that said, I’ve literally never done it before, and it does involve risk for you, so I’m not offended or concerned if it’s just not for you. I’m happy to play more conventionally too. Up to you.
I am just sensing that you don’t like this idea, so shall we talk about something else? That was just a crazy idea I’ve always wanted to try. I’m happy to play more conservatively.
Any thoughts?
Sorry Italy I've been away doing, um, German things. Brewing Lagers?
I don't think I'm ready to go for that idea, however I'd be down for some good ol'-fashioned Austria-kicking?
I am pretty conflicted about whether to guess that you were telling the truth or lying about the “brewing lagers” thing. I am going to take it literally and say 👎 even though I don’t think you meant it deceptively. 😉
But I think I can get over “Lagergate” and we can still be friends. 

As of right now, I think Austria may be my most reliable ally. I’m thinking I’d like to play as a Central Trio if you have any interest in that. Thoughts?
We haven't even passed a season yet and you have a 'most reliable ally'?

I'll consider this proposal but, basically, I'm not going to expose myself to risk from either of you until I've seen a bit of your behavior
Well, at least I have an idea of who to trust. Obviously, my ideas are subject to change. 

I understand your desire to watch behavior before committing to anything. I, personally, am a partner player. I look carefully early in the game for a small group to work with, and then I value loyalty and collaboration. I like to work closely with a tight-knit alliance. 

If you prefer to hop and back and forth, or play more of an individual game, then we might not be a good match. 

I’m looking for a loyal ally or two that I can coordinate with and make awesome moves with. Makes the game easier and a lot more fun.
Just an FYI: I’ve now had both England and France suggest to me that I should move to Tyrolia and France will support me to Munich in the Fall. One saying that to me is not a big deal, but with both mentioning it, my alarm bells are going off. I am concerned about an E/F. 

I’m certainly not moving to Tyrolia. But I just want you to be cautious here. I feel like England and France are working together.
I appreciate the tip, but I'm wondering why you're so against ousting me from Munich if I haven't explicitly agreed to be your ally?
Because it is terrible, terrible play for Italy to attack Germany, in my view. If I were to attack you in Munich, I could never hold Munich. So, all I would be doing is weakening you, and helping France, England, or both to get really big. 

I don’t have any long-term path going north. Helping France to take you down is a sucker’s play, whether you are working with me or not.
Did France tell you he was moving to Burgundy, or was that a stab?
I was not informed of it, no. And England is leading me to believe it's part of a play for Belgium, so if they're working together this might be a trick...

Italy, you seem like a straight shooter, and Austria has confirmed with me about your two's alliance. So I'll confide in you--this is my first ever game of diplomacy, and I think that teaming up with the two of you could help me learn more and have more fun. So, if you're still interested in a central powers alliance, I'm in.
Okay full disclosure: I'm not very smart, and I accidentally let slip to England that you told me France was plotting to take Munich. I'm sorry for the error but I figured it was better to admit it so you know that England/France may not trust you.
Okay, thanks for telling me.
So, um, no alliance then?
I do want to be allies. Sorry, busy weekend here running around with bambinos. More to come.
What would you think of helping me take Marseilles in two turns?
Hi Germany, I’ll certainly consider that. Though, I’ll note: traditionally, Germany would help Italy to Marseilles if the two of them work together there. The reason is that: if I help you to Marseilles, I’m basically cut off from going west and getting anything myself. So, usually, Germany would help Italy into Marseilles to encourage Italy to come west and Germany would plan to take Paris, Belgium and Brest.
Fair enough--I'll help you take it, then, but I'll need to deal with Belgium first.
How are things going with England? I think that getting him to work with you is the main key here.
I'm trying--I just offered to assist with taking Sweden in exchange for some assistance into Belgium...not sure if they'll go for it...
I’ll check with England and try to see where his head is at.
I've actually been thinking about this game all day 😅  and have come up with a plan I like a bit better... but England still hasn't responded to my initial offer.
That’s the worst!

And I’m glad to see you’re so focused on this in your first game. It’s a really great game if you put in the time and effort!
You're definitely telling the truth on that one. So can I count on you to move to piedmont this season?
I don’t think I can afford to move to Piedmont this season. I don’t really trust Austria to avoid walking through that door if I leave it wide open. 

I think you need to get England on board to attack France.
That's valid. And actually I was conferring with England and we concluded that it's not really gonna be possible for me to help you take Marseilles this year anyway. 

...what are you and Austria planning for this year, then? I'm willing to tell you my plans in exchange as a gesture of trust. 

Have you communicated at all with England or France?
Hi, are you there?

Just woke up. 

England did return my message, but he did not tell me anything substantive so I really don’t know what he’s doing. I’m planning to move towards Turkey.
Well, you’re in trouble. That England move is trouble. 

I’m going to try to convince him to change course. I suggest you be very kind to him, and don’t burn that bridge. I think your game hinges on turning England around.
Hi Germany,

I’m working hard on turning England. And I’m also trying to get Russia to come to your aid. Doing the best I can! I’ll keep you posted.
England just told me that Russia is helping them to take Denmark so that may be a lost cause. Granted, the source for that intel is a serpentine jackal-spawn
Okay, I’m reasonably sure that England wants to take the Channel and attack France now. 

I believe that you should basically do whatever England asks to help make this happen. As long as E attacks F, you will be in a much better position, and you’ll gain back centers quickly. 

What are you hearing?
What are your plans for this turn? I can't help but notice that Munich is surrounded by foreign armies on three sides...

I wish I could be more helpful but I'm pretty much just treading water right now trying not to lose anything else
Hey — sorry, just getting back into this now.
I have good news! (1) I am finally attacking France this turn. (2) I will be supporting Munich to hold from Tyrolia. 

Let’s turn this game around, yes?
I am pretty sure that England is not attacking you this turn. And I am committed to supporting Munich holding. Make sure you don’t move Munich so that it can take my support.
Okay, can do. Thanks!
I suggest that you order:
Kiel Support Berlin holding
Berlin Support Munich holding
Helg to Holland
Munich Support Berlin holding
I agree completely--although I didn't know that a country could hold *and* support at the same time! Thanks!
Thanks Italy. Hope you're enjoying the weather on the Anatolian 😉
I will be supporting Munich to hold again. And I’ll be trying to get Russia to back off your flank and protect himself against an Austrian stab that is coming.
Two bits of advice: #1 I suggest you tell Russia that Austria is coming for him. You really want Russia to move Sil back to Gal. You might also suggest to Russia that is he supports you to Denmark, you will then support Russia back to Sweden. I don’t know yet if it actually makes sense to do that, but you want Russia thinking that you are eager to work with him. He’ll be hoping for a reason to break off his attack on you at this point.
#2 Here is the move set I would suggest right now:
Kiel Support Holland holding
Holland Support Wales to Belgium (tell England you are going to order this support and he can take it or leave it)
Munich Support Berlin holding
Berlin Support Munich holding

I think that both France and Russia are about to back off you, as they are both under fire at home. Just hold still, and soon you should be able to break out of this holding pattern.
God, I hope so! I'm attempting to make that deal with russia now...and I'm talking with England re: Belgium
It’s none of my business, but if you do plan to take Denmark, I strongly recommend you wait until Fall. I think the most important thing for you right now is getting England fully committed against France. If that happens, taking Denmark later will be easy.
I think me and England are really on the same page at this point regarding France. I'm actually sort of running counter-intelligence for England (and my friends to the south, of course!) with Russia right now. 

England and I talked about Denmark too...and it seems like one or the other of Denmark or Belgium should work out for me this year and I'm fine with that
Great to hear. Thank you.
Do you need me to disrupt Bur this year? I'll need to seriously trust Russia if I'm going to risk not holding my eastern front, I think...
I do think a move to Burgundy makes sense for you this turn, and I can’t imagine Russia attacking you here. He has a serious Austria problem. 

I suggest this:
Mun - Bur
Ruh - Bel
Hol Support Ruh - Bel 
Ber - Kie

Tell Russia that the last thing in the world you want to see is Austria run him over, and you’re willing to help keep Russia viable if necessary (you’re angling for Russia to disband his northern holdings this turn).
And ask England nicely to support Ruh - Hol, with the explanation that you don’t plan to ask for Denmark back, but you think it would help you both to diminish France. (You’ll get Den back eventually, but you want England to think you don’t care about it).
Thanks, I'll work on these. 
...Why didn't you scooch into the Aegean behind Austria? You could have defended or even held Bulgaria this turn?
England and I were talking about your moves for this season--what do you think of convoying Pie into Spa, supporting this with Wes, and then moving Tyr into Pie?
This leaves Marseilles open for Bur to fall into if France goes that route, which gives me an opening into Bur
That’s not bad.
I was kind of thinking I should pick one or the other of Marseilles or Spain to attack and not tell a soul which one I’m going after.
Do you really think it’s important to coordinate?
I do think you’re best off moving to Burgundy. And there is some chance that we fail this turn. But I think we just take a guess and hope for the best. We’ll get him next turn if not this one.
Okay—sorry for being nosy! I will try for bur on the off chance it shakes out that way
Nah, you’re not being nosy at all. I mean, come on, we both know that I have no problem sticking my nose where it doesn’t belong.
Marked as true
I like to coordinate, but on these sort of 50/50 guesses, I kind of like to keep it secret so that if it doesn’t go well, I have nobody to blame but myself.
Ha!
Well, are you willing to humor my question about the Aegean, anyway?
Sure. I was thinking of moving that fleet to Ionian. You think a move to Aegean is better? I’m not really sure, but let’s talk it through.
No sorry I meant in hindsight--like this past turn you should have moved to Aeg so that this current turn, when Austria takes Rumania (from Bulgaria), you'd be there to cover Bulgaria so it couldn't get scooped by the Black sea, and potentially you'd just get to take it.
Not a bad point. I agree.
Hmmmm, kind of a pointless lie if you ask me, but I won’t hold it against you. You’re in a tough spot.
um what lie? I did exactly the moves you suggested!
Ha! So sorry!! I meant that for France!
You are my favorite.
Marked as lie because clearly austria is your favorite.
Speaking of, I assume that your seizing Trieste was mutually agreed upon?
Yes — agreed upon.
That's not what Austria said to England...
Hmmmm, okay. Well, let’s just keep that between you and me then. 🤦‍♂️
You know italy, I think we *do* need to coordinate your move this time--England and I have a shot at either Bur or Mao if one of Marseilles or Spain can be left open for France to fall into. This will improve all of our chances of crushing France quickly.
Okay, I can dig it. What do you want me to do?
Let me confer with England and get back to you. Glad to hear that though!
So...any thoughts on how to approach this?
It looks like England's not willing to try for MAO if it means possibly losing the channel. However, they'll bring the NWG fleet around to try for MAO next year. 
So if you could keep Marseilles open, it will help me to try and take Burgundy this turn.
If I leave Marseilles open, would you kindly use Burgundy in the Fall to help me take Marseilles? (Likely that means ordering Burgundy to Gascony to cut support)
Will do.
Okay, so I still have a teensy little bone to pick with you: on the off-chance that Austria wasn't lying and you *did* take Trieste unexpectedly, I sort of worry that I might be next. Are you willing to tell me what your plans are for the Tri unit, or at least to warn me before any move into Tyrolia?
Sure. But, you’ll see from my moves this turn that Austria is lying to you.
I currently have Tri - Tyrolia. I like the unit there because it sets up an attack on Austria if I ever want to go that route (build A Ven and go east). Do you want me to keep Tyrolia clear?
I’ll add — I would never attack Germany as Italy. Setting myself as a giant column like that is just not defensible. It would be a terrible move.
Not when that column is not-so-giant and in a turf war with France.
oh you mean setting *yourself*
But you could easily pick off, say, Munich and not be a "giant column"
I mean this sincerely: any Germany who does that is a terrible player. 

Why would I do that? I would need 2-3 units to hold one center. That is a net negative. And all of your units are doing things that are good for me in containing your neighbors. 

I’ve been working hard in this game for you to succeed and knock back France and England. I can say with 100% certainty: I’m not going to attack you. I’m going to keep helping you as much as I can.
That said, if you want me NOT to move to Tyrolia, I won’t move there.
Nah, I just needed some reassurance :)
Your logic is undenyable— enjoy your stay in tyr!
*undeniable? That looks better
I mean it sincerely. I think that England will want to coax me to attack you with him after France falls, but I’d much rather work with you against England. 

But first thing’s first — let’s get rid of France.
Agreed
(On the france part)
Sorry I won't be able to cut off Gascony this turn...I probably should have just told you my moves; you could have advised me that supporting Mun-Bur was more important than Kie-Ruh
No worries. We’ll crack this but eventually. 

Here is my suggestion for this turn:
Kie - Den
Hol S Bel holding
Bel S Ruh - Bur
Mun S Ruh - Bur
Ruh - Bur
I think you should suggest to England that he gets Sweden and St Petersburg, while you get Denmark back. That’s only fair, as you have been a loyal ally in the fight against France and you plan to continue to do that.
The moves I had already planned differ in one respect: I thought it would be worth the risk to try moving Hol-Bel and therefore move Bel-Bur. Even if me and France are high-fiving in Bel for a few seasons it's still mine, and it's not like Holland has anything better to do while I'm still allies with England.

...The only reason I'm reluctant to make that agreement with England is that---while I think *you* and I have a good relationship---I really have not talked with Austria much at all, and I'm the next logical target for them when Russia's gone. And anything that's bad for Russia right now is good for Austria.
Hmmmm, I’m just not sure you should trust England enough right now to leave Holland open and Belgium essentially unguarded. 

France is a really good player, and he is no doubt working hard to get England to turn on you. My personal take is that you are better off being a bit more conservative until you have Denmark back and England has moved another fleet towards France. But I can see it either way.
With regard to Russia, talk it through with England. What you don’t want is England taking out Russia and giving you nothing. So, if England agrees to let Russia be for a while, then your plan sounds good. But if England is going to take Sweden, you really should get Denmark back. (I’m my view)
Okay you've convinced me: it's worth figuring out what E's plans are for Russia at least.

And you're almost certainly right, from a rational perspective, about leaving Holland/Belgium vulnerable to England. But I think England really is counting on my assistance in taking France, and because of that and other non-quantifiable reasons I trust them.
Excellent. Obviously you have a much better feel for your relationship with England than I do. Just know that France is persuasive, and I’m sure that’s what he’s working on. He stopped talking to me, so I bet he’s trying to turn England. Just keep reassuring England that you want to work with him long-term so he doesn’t succumb to the Dark Side.
Hi Germany — well, I think we’re getting to a critical point in the game here. France held out a long time, but he’s much less of a threat now. I think the critical issue, for you, is England. 

I have some thoughts on the matter, and some information, but I’d like to feel confident that you and I will keep anything we say between us. I think of you as the one person who has been honest with me on every turn. You even tell me the truth when it’s bad news, or when you don’t completely trust me, and I like that.
Okay, Italy. I won't share any of this conversation. But in the interest of continued full disclosure, here's what I think: England is a greater threat to *me* on the map, but *you* have a greater chance of soloing this game quickly, or pair-winning with Austria even sooner. And if I continue to collaborate with England, we at least have a chance of slowing that down. So I'm in sort of a conflicted spot
This is why I like you. The full disclosure part. You tell me the truth even when the news isn’t great.
My thoughts on the “Germany/England forever so that at least we can stop the solo” strategy: (1) It’s quite early to be talking about solos. I am at 8, and Austria could take 3 from me any time, quite easily. (2) I don’t think England is thinking that way. I think he’s thinking that a dominant power will emerge in the north, and one will emerge in the south. And he’s like to be that dominant power.
England’s pieces are not positioned well if he’s trying to attack France or contain Italy. He keeps Denmark guarded, and North Sea filled. He is not playing like he intends to stick with you, even though I’m sure he’s telling you that.
You’re right that you don’t want to start a war with England right now. But, you must stick up for yourself, because nobody else will do that if you don’t.
If I were you, this is what I would do: (1) keep warning England about the dangers of Italy getting too big and insist that England moves his fleets towards MAO (Channel to Irish, Norwegian to NAO, North - Channel), (2) insist on taking Denmark back.
I would say something like this:

England, I’m with you my friend, but we’re passed the stage of you needing to keep me under lock and key. I need to take Denmark back. I’m happy to support you to Brest to keep you growing, or you can grab Sweden. You have plenty of options other than keeping your ally’s center, but if you really want to be my ally long-term, you’ve got to show me that.
I am hearing from England signs that he may be thinking of attacking you soon. And I think you actually avoid that better by being strong and sticking up for yourself rather than being accommodating and letting him do whatever he wants to do.
Well, both you and France have now pointed out that England is strategically not in a good place to be my ally right now, and you are correct. I'll be more cautious with my northern border, but I made a pretty strong argument for denmark this past turn and it fell on deaf ears
...which probably also should have been a sign for me
Well, if you want, you could just take Denmark this next year and I don’t think England is in a position to retaliate.
Probably not...has France been talking with you at all about their sunsetting strategy? They've indicated a willingness to work with you and me and a desire to see England get as few dots as possible
He did say that to me too. Though, France has a long history of lying to me, so I really don’t trust him.
Well France has actually been pretty honest with me, and I at least am certain that they wouldn't betray me to England. So, I'm considering working with F to sabotage (or potentially full-on backstab) England this turn, which would have the side-effect of maybe taking some attention away from the south for you anyway.
(and I'd be interested to hear your thoughts on this if you're in the mood to give out free advice)
Hi Germany — sorry for the delay. Well...I think it’s really important that you get a build this turn either way. I don’t think England will get a build this turn, so if I were you I’d probably take Paris, build a fleet, and move on England after that.
But it likely depends on how communication is going with England. If he’ll give you back Denmark, that might change the equation.
I am waiting on England to make a decision about that--they claim to be thinking about it.
England told me you said I was plotting with France. It makes sense you’d want to pit us against each other.
Hey — tried to send you a message earlier but not was down. England was telling me that you’re saying that I told you that England is plotting against you. The problem with telling England that is that he will stop giving me useful info.
Truly, I don’t want you and England to fight. I am not trying to break you up. I suggested that you take Paris! I want you guys to work together with me against France.
You don't want us to fight, yet you betrayed both of our confidence with you in a way that makes us distrust each other?
I really don’t think that’s a fair description. You guys both wanted to attack each other. I encouraged you both to keep working together.
Just as long as it suits you. Are you going to give England Mao?
Hmmm, should I be reading that as angry sarcastic with dagger eyes? (I’m not sure if I’m getting your tone right)
We’re friends, right? I believe that every single message I’ve sent you all game has been truth, and I’ve gone out of my way to give you candid advice. Are we still friends?
Regarding MAO — I don’t know. What do you want me to do? I don’t have any set plan.
Yep, there's some sarcasm there. Looking back at your messages, I still don't read them as encouraging collaboration. And if you wanted us to be friends, you could have done that without betraying me to England by simply saying in your candid way "I don't think you should do that for such and such reason". But you chose to increase E's distrust of me. So I think you might be full of gnocchi and crap. 

My trust in you is a bit shaken but I still think we can have a working partnership with a bit more caution on my end. It would be my preference that you hold Mao, on the assumption that if it came down to a choice between partnering with me or England, you'd choose me. If that's not the case, then as the filling of an England-Italy sandwich I'm in no position to retaliate anyway.
Well, again, I like that you’re honest with me, even when the news is bad.
I have to say that I’m surprised that you feel that I’ve betrayed your trust. I have been feeling like maybe I’ve been TOO helpful to you, and been a bit over the top in offering advice, etc., but it seems like I’ve misread the situation.
No, it's completely true that you've been too helpful, and I'm really really grateful for it because I've been able to learn so much from this game. But it's also true that you didn't have to tell England what you did, and all you stood to gain from it was that it shook my and E's trust in each other.
But I understand what you’re saying, and I much prefer to have a heart to heart like this, a frank airing of grievances, rather than being surprised by unkind moves on the board. https://youtu.be/xoirV6BbjOg
Was not expecting seinfeld today and it was a pleasant surprise
🤗
Here’s the deal: I like you better than England.
I’m not sure how the next couple of turns are going to shake out. But I like that you tell me when you’re angry with me. I know that may seem like a small thing, but it’s just rare in Diplomacy. You get so many fake smiles.
So, if it comes down to you or him, I’m choosing you. And I’ll work to do a better job of keeping your confidence. I certainly understand how important that is, as I hate it when people o that same thing to me.
So no more playing mediator for me.
Okay. Is it true that you want the channel?
And are you planning to keep Vienna?
I am not planning to keep Vienna. And yeah I’ve asked France for support to the Channel. Do you think he’s on board?
I'm not sure. Is *England* on board? Is this something England can know about?
No, do you think France will Support me to the Channel?
France has asked my opinion on it, and I haven't given it yet. To my estimation things look a lot better for me if you don't end up there: I don't want to see England in Mao, and I don't want to see you snagging pieces of the north.
Okay, well, here is my thinking. Tell France whatever you want to make him happy. Then tell me how you really feel. And if you don’t want me to go there, I won’t go there.
If I hadn't asked you about it, would that have just been another surprise, too?
Absolutely. 

You and I have discussed our moves and been honest with each other every turn. But we have not been sharing all our moves or pre-clearing all of our moves. So that would have Ben a surprise in the same way that your moves are a surprise to me. (I never tell you what to do or insist on knowing).
I kind of thought that you would have wanted me in the Channel because it commits me further against England, but I can understand what you’re saying now about wanting me to hang back.
But I don’t think there is anything wrong with me contemplating moves without telling you all of them. You asked me about it, and I told you the truth.
I do think that this move is a breach of general expectation, which is the kind of thing I'd like to know about. And it's also the kind of thing I've shared with you: case in point, my desire to stab England.
Okay. Understood.
Is there anything I could gain from seeing you in the channel? Would you support me taking Nth, and potentially seizing the island?
Here's what I'm thinking: I would be on board with you taking the channel (and I'd give France the green light to go ahead with it) if you would agree to bump Nao out of Mao using Wes, and if you'd be open to supporting some anti-English aggression while holding the channel so that I can get on equal footing with you, dot-wise.

If you don't want to agree to those terms, that's okay, but I would strongly prefer not to see you in the channel in that case.
I’m going to be out of pocket this weekend, so let’s talk this through more on Monday. Generally, I agree that I’ll either stay out of the Channel or agree to your terms for entering there.
If you decide to stay out of the channel, I have a deal that I like with England in the works. For that deal to go through, you'd have to agree to move Mao into Portugal to let England take Mao. Would you be amenable to that?
(If this second offer is more to think about than a no-brainer, you can just mull it over and let me know monday)
So, here is my concern with the England offer: If I’m taking Portugal, why do we want England in MAO? And why would he want to go to MAO? I’m not sure I understand that one. Can you explain?
Well, when I initially proposed the deal I had forgotten that Portugal was promised to England. Then England agreed to it on the condition that you would confirm that move, so I figured E thought you would just move out of there next year? But now that I think about it, it’s probably worth asking England why they’d agree to that.
I’d prefer that you not tell England I am considering moving to the Channel. I don’t think he would like that.
I don’t really want to discuss this stuff with England at all.
Well, England changed their mind about the plan I offered anyway. So, are you taking the channel?
No, I’m not taking the Channel.
Okay was that a recent decision? Because like an hour ago France said they were supporting you into the channel
Well, when I tell you what I plan to do, do you turn around and tell France? This makes me uncomfortable speaking with you.
I haven't spoken to France since then. I didn't realize you were giving the two of us different information on this particular subject. But I don't think I've revealed anything to them about what you plan to do. Mostly because you haven't told me.
Well, I have been honest with both you and France. You told me that I need to promise you a set of things in order to take the Channel. I felt like it was more than I could be sure of doing, so I am not entering the Channel. I won’t go there without your permission.
I appreciate that. And I'll keep the remainder of this conversation between us unless I hear otherwise. Have you just recently made an agreement with England?
I heard as much but I want to verify the contents of that agreement with you
Btw, France just said that they submitted the orders to support you into the channel.
I don’t have an agreement with England, but he is asking me about my moves and trying to get my help.
Okay--then England is lying to me, saying that you're helping support Eng-Brest.
Ha! Yeah, fat chance.
...but did you lie to England about that? Or can I say to England that I don't think you'll actually provide that support?
What is Paris up to?
I suggest you just not tell England anything about my moves.
Do you want me to support England to Brest?
I guess I’m not sure what your goals are here.
I just kind of feel like you’re grilling me with a lot of questions, but not telling me what you’re doing or what you want from me.
*If* you support Eng-Brest, England has agreed to vacate denmark for me. If you don't, I won't get in the way of your channel thing. Any other questions?
I have no sense of what you want or what your plan is, but I thought I'd been pretty clear: I want Denmark. I am reluctant to see you in the Channel if England remains powerful, but happy to see you there if they are weakened.
Can’t you just force Denmark?
Not without risking a swipe of Belgium
And why force when you don't have to
Okay, I’ll support England to Brest. You take Denmark.
And you and I should be in position to take out England next year.
Splendid!
Glad everything worked out 😃
👍
Congratulations on retaking Denmark and getting two builds. You are playing really well right now. Respect.
Congrats on having double-digit dots! I have some thoughts about taking out England, if you want to go full-stab this season...
I think I do! 🤫
What are you thinking?
One option is to take the channel, another is to take Brest. Between you, me, and Picardy we can manage either, but it's a question of which takes priority. If we chose Brest, I could also take a stab at seizing Nth this season, then we could try for the channel in fall. Or we could do channel first, Brest second.
Yeah, that is all along the lines of what I’m thinking. How demanding does France sound right now? Does he want to be the one who takes Brest?
Haven't asked. But in general not demanding.
Good!

Still, I think we should show him some good faith by supporting him to Brest in Spring. We can decide in Fall whether it makes more sense for you to take it, but I think we want to keep France hungry.
I would suggest something like this to ensure the English fleet is disbanded:
Pic - Bre
MAO - Channel
Par S Pic - Bre
And Spa - Gas to cut off that retreat.
You can take the North Sea on the same move and set up a convoy to the English mainland. 

Checkmate.
Okay, I like the plan! I've asked France if they're willing to move to Brest supported by me.
Aren't you concerned about England taking Mao? I'd sooner just have you pile on support into Bre so that Wes can support Mao holding
That’s a good point, but the problem with that approach is that Brest is not guaranteed. If England cute MAO and supports with the Channel, the attack fails. I think we are better off ensuring that the Brest fleet is disbanded. If we disband that fleet and take North Sea, an English fleet in MAO really just spreads him out and allows you to take the island faster. It’s not like he can get Portugal or Spain.
Okay, but that means I'd prefer to take Brest myself this Spring, if France is okay with it.
I think that we should offer France Brest in Spring. That ensures that he is with us. Then, if conditions are right in the Fall, I can support you into Brest. But...England can offer France Belgium, and I think he is sure to take that if we’re not even offering him a center, right?
Better to keep France feeling like we’re going to keep him in the game. If you need the build in Fall, it’s easy for me to support you there.
I guess I’m just wondering from France’s perspective why they’d *want* to stay in the game. Isn’t it possible they’d rather move on with their life? That’s not rhetorical, I’m wondering what your perspective is as a veteran player
Here is my take: If France just wanted to go down in a blaze of glory and say “eff you” to England, he would have kept Irish Sea. He kept Pic, which is next to his home center, and gives him a chance to negotiate with both you and England.
I think that means he is motivated to keep trying. And if he believes he can get Brest, he could legitimately get back to his feet. I know that’s what I’d be trying to do in his position.
As the poker saying goes: “a chip and a chair.” So long as you have one chip left, and you’re still in the tournament, you can always come back to win.
Thoughts?
I think that makes sense. Are you talking with England at all?
I’m pretty wary of England right now. He asked me what I want to do, but I feel like he’s trying to get me to leave MAO open. That’s not terrible news, as it suggests that he won’t expect your move to North Sea.
As long as he doesn’t move NAO to Norwegian, you’ve got a guaranteed supply center.
Well E'd have to be a right dolt not to retreat to NWG. And right now they're talking to me about supporting a move from Bre to Gas (the better for the two of us to stab you).
What i mean is, there's a good chance that Mao is safe if I "agree" to that deal
Oh nevermind--they're not going to convoy into Brest. So actually this pretty much guarantees that Eng and Nao will try for Mao.
Ahhhh, sneaky Devil! Thank you for letting me know.
I still like our plan.
I need to run for a bit. I’ll be around in a few hours.
I think that knowing this, you should do as I suggest and not poke Eng. Just hold and let Wes support. I am 94% sure I can trust England to do as they say on this one.
Okay. Should I support Pic to Bre?
yes please. It'll do us good with France too if we both support.
👍
Actually, you should use Mao to support Spa-Gas, since we know that Brest is moving there. It will be beneficial to have you there if we decide to oust France from Bre in fall
Consider it done.
Hmmmm, heading anything from England?
I’d love to talk if you’re there. I’m getting the impression that England may actually be moving on you, and I think I have a good counter, but I also still think we should support the attack on Brest and take North Sea.
I definitely think you should keep your moves the same.
Nice! Get’em! He WAS moving on you. But we should be able to take about 3 off of him now. Very nice turn.
Sorry; I was asleep by 9 last night 😂  

why the move to Nao? Wouldn't IRI be the more anti-England choice?

With the move to Picardy and assuming a retreat to SKA, it looks like England has me pretty powerless this turn.
So do you, it seems, if you have some kind of deal with Russia about Munich.
Good morning. 

Just responding to your messages above. I think NAO and Irish are equally anti-English. They both give me a clear lane to attack Liverpool. I wasn’t sure if either one would be left open, but I took a gamble and it paid off.
Re your move this turn, I don’t think you’re powerless. You should get a build I think and if not, you should be in position to smash England.
I don’t have a deal regarding Munich, Germany. Frankly, I thought you would be a bit more joyful towards me. By attacking England, I have committed completely to working as your partner.
I suppose you're right. Initially I was thinking IRI also gives you channel access, but NWG access may be just as useful. 

Well when you control half a continent (and even more when you consider your influence over me, austria, and who knows who else!), there's no such thing as complete commitment. I'm not so naive as to think your allegiance with me is going to last beyond its usefulness, and with two fleets on the British isle that time is fast approaching. To be clear, I'm still giving you the truth and I still want to work with you. But you should really stop acting surprised when I'm slightly paranoid that a soon-to-be-dozen-dot-holder is gearing up to stab me
Well, I dunno, it sounds like I should stab you. Is that what you’re trying to tell me?

I like you. I like how hard you’ve worked in this game to rebound from a difficult start. I like that you e told me the truth, even when the news was bad. I like that you tell me when you don’t trust me. I have literally never told you a lie in this game, and I don’t intend to start now. Last turn I burned my bridge with England beyond repair. If you don’t want to work with me now, that’s really disappointing.
like I said, I *do* want to work with you. However, remember that thing I said about general expectations and being warned when they're broken? Tyrolia is one of them and I think you knew that. And England *also* told me they've never told me a lie; I'm starting to think that's Diplomacy-speak for "when convenient, I've used careful wording and half-truths to deceive you even when everything I said was technically true". 

It would help me to know that you see me being a benefit to you beyond taking out England. A natural next move for us would be to take out russia, and in that arena I have a positional advantage over you. Especially if I get two builds this turn, I'll be able to sneak behind the troops in bohemia/galicia and help you break through.
Yes — here is how I expect and hope the game will play out: the two of us finish off England and France, while drifting towards the east a bit. With the builds we get this year, we essentially blitzkrieg the East. I have more units than you, but you have no opposition at all in the north, and can take Scandinavia, War and Mos without any trouble.
I think that, in about two years, you and I will both be on about 14 centers, with the remnants of Russia and Austria between us, and we can decide how we want to resolve it. I’d be happy to agree to a small draw, or to shoot for a 17-17 two-way draw position, whichever you prefer.
Well, I like the sound of all of that. In fact, it sounds ideal: there's something poetic about the complete beginner and the expert (you've probably heard by now that you got doxxed) sharing a victory. 

I ask for a concession: As a show of good will, would you be willing to take only one of Liverpool or Portugal this year? (I know the Portugal request seems weird, but I like keeping France around and unless I'm mistaken they like me better than you 😃 )
Yes. I wasn’t planning to take Portugal anyway.
I think it makes sense here for you to land an army in the English island while you can. Now that his army is off the island, he’s toast as soon as you do that.
England's just vindictive enough to try and stab Belgium with England and Picardy, though. I was planning on keeping holland around as support.
*by England I of course mean Eng
I suggest the following:

Gas - Liv (via convoy)
Spa S MAO holding
Mar hold
Tyr - Tri

Hol - Yor (via convoy)
Bur S Bel
Bel S North
HEL S North
Mun - Boh
Par - Pic (to cut any potential support)
England cannot take Belgium with those moves.
Or I could move my fleet into Liverpool and use Gas to support Bre. I’m happy either way.
I tried a double convoy in the sandbox once and it didn't work! What is this witchcraft?!?
At any rate, I prefer the fleet move to liverpool and Gascony's support into Brest. And could Mao support Bre into the Channel? No sense forcing France to disband. Bel will support it, too.
Here are the orders needed to do a convoy!
Holland move to Yorkshire
North Sea convoy Holland to Yorkshire

It is not a “double convoy” as you only need one fleet to make it happen. 

But if your fleet in North Sea is dislodged, the convoy will not go through. That is why I would suggest that HELG supports North Sea holding and Belgium supports North Sea holding.
No--I mean the one *you* were planning: Gascony to Liverpool
It's a double convoy because you're convoying through Mao *and* Nao
Ah, the orders there would be:
Gascony - Liv
MAO Convoy Gas - Liv
NAO Convoy Gas - Liv
So, I’ll move the fleet to Liverpool. And you want MAO to support Paris to Brest?
Or wait, MAO supports Brest to Channel, and Gas supports Paris - Brest, right?
yeah. I tried that once in the sandbox (or the equivalent: back when you had fleets in Lyo and Wes I tried  a convoy from Pie to Naf). But I think I messed up the commands to the fleets. 

 And yes the most recent message is correct. Those two things and Nao-Lvp
Okay, confirmed. 

So I’ve got in:
NAO - Liv
MAO S Bre - Channel
Gas S Par - Bre
Spa - WES
Mar S Gas holding 
Tyrolia - Trieste

Sound right?
It does. But If Tyr was bound for trieste anyway, why did you detour through Tyr at all? Why not just move to trieste last turn??
Austria would not have liked it.
And he doesn’t know that it’s headed back there now (please don’t tell)
Understood. Me and Austria don't talk anyway. Also, do you have any sense of what England is planning to do?
Ha! No I don’t. I’d imagine he is coming for me. But I don’t know that.
If I were him, I’d defend Edi and London.
So you haven't been talking to England at all? I was sort of hoping you would know more, maybe help us take better advantage of their plans.
Anyway, my moves are:

Par-Bre
Bel s Bre-Eng
Hol s Bel holding

And the rest within expected parameters. Correct?
England has not said anything of substance to me. He was gracious about my move, but he won’t trust me again, and I would not trust anything he might say at this point. I haven’t asked him about his moves and he hasn’t told me.
I thought you would Convoy Holland to Yorkshire and support Belgium from Burgundy. Also, can you please order Mun to Boh to cut support and allow me to hold Vienna while moving Tyrolia to Trieste?
I *told* you I'm not risking that convoy *and* that instead Bel is supporting France into the Channel (which will heretofore be called the French Channel). And could I persuade you to move to IRI instead of taking Liverpool in exchange for the requested cut?
Sorry, what is the requested cut? I understand that you don’t want me to take Liverpool or Portugal. What are you offering to me? (I don’t mean to be difficult, I just want to be sure I understand).
Ah, you must mean Munich to Boh.
Asking me to avoid taking Por and Liv is asking a lot. I want France to survive here, but I also want England taking units off the board, and I feel like you should too, right?
I do. But I also want those dots for myself, of course. And there's still the nonzero chance that you've arranged with Boh to take Munich for yourself, so I'm taking a serious risk
I will avoid taking Portugal, vacate Tyrolia, and support you to Brest. I feel like I’m offering quite a lot in exchange for one cut support. 

And cutting that support does not put you in greater peril. If I had a deal with Russia for Munich (I don’t) I could cut Burgundy from Marseilles and support Russia to Munich. Moving Mun to Boh to cut support is costless.
You're right. I just thought I'd put my best argument forward. I'll do the cut. But I ask for something costless in exchange, and I really, really want it to stay just between us, ok?
Understood and agreed.
And I have no problem with you asking for more than you’re willing to settle for. That’s smart, and I do the same thing sometimes. If you don’t stick up for yourself, nobody else will.
I *know* there's more to your relationship with England than you're telling me. The last message England sent to me hinted that if *I* wasn't willing to work with them--and I haven't said anything to them since--that maybe *you* would. And if England were to reach out to you, you're too smart to just snub them. There's advantage to be gained--either for both of us or just for yourself--from talking to them. The only reason I stopped was because I knew my word would be mud to them anyway.

Earlier I was hoping you'd give me the truth about what you knew, and about what they might know. But you didn't and that both disappoints and scares me. So I'm asking that you give me just a modicum of honesty here: what do you know? what does England know?
I give you my word: I don’t know what England is going to do and I haven’t asked.
He is still jovial with me and respectful. He has asked me to critique his play and to give him advice. But I do not know his moves, and I really don’t think he would tell me them if I asked. It certainly would not be info I could trust free I just lied to him about mine.
But England's desperate. Better to talk with *someone* than just go in blind. And I doubt they'd turn to Russia or France because neither is really close enough/powerful enough to give real help. And there's precedent for you negotiating with someone even as you stab them: France.

...and here's the real accusation: for all your pretty words about a shared victory between you and me, you've been sneaky and you've always pitted me and England against each other to your benefit. My real fear here is that knowing my moves, and with a desperate, jovial England seeking your advice, it would be so *easy* to just feed England enough info to keep me weak while you chow down on the Island. 

I know this from experience: back when you were doing 50/50 shots in the south of France, I did everything I could to find out what you were planning and feed it to France. This was merely a time-buying measure, since France was outmatched and I would eventually run out of pretenses to extract your move. But I wanted to gain more dots before you took over. And I assume others are like me, hence I suspect you now. 

I'm offering this confession in hopes that you'll do the same. So just come clean and let's approach this thing as equals?
I am in my car, off to pick-up my kids from school. This deserves a proper response, so please give me some time.
Abandon the children this is important 😜
So, I’m going to speak frankly here. I am rarely offended in a Diplomacy game, and I rarely say so when I am, but this message offends me. I’m trying to think about why I’m having such a strong reaction to it. I think it’s because you’re painting a picture of the game (both your actions and mine) which are totally different than my own perspective. (Continuing)
From my perspective, you were on the ropes early. France and England were teaming up on you. You lost Denmark and France had Holland and Munich surrounded. You were in serious peril. 

I seriously went to extreme effort to keep you in the game. I spent hours talking with England and encouraging him to turn around and go the other way. I completely ended my eastern campaign and spent two seasons just making the voyage over to France so that he didn’t have the bandwidth to continue his attack. I have vouched for you with Austria and Russia many times. I have supported Munich. And I have NEVER attacked you, even when people have asked me to do so and pledged to support me.
I have been honest with you, I have worked hard for your success, and I’ve made a lot of proposals to you in which you gain centers; not me. 

Maybe I am just a bad ally, but I’m not sure I remember an alliance in which I have done more to help my ally. Truly.
And to hear that (1) You think I’ve been selfish and (2) You’ve been sabotaging me all along, that just doesn’t sit well with me.
I have rarely asked for your help, and I’ve offered my help freely. I’ve provided my sincere best efforts to help you with tactics, and I have never sabotaged you. Not once.
And if I’m totally honest with you, I could solo this game if I felt like lying to everyone and grabbing dots. I think I’ve got you all beat tactically. I just have more experience. But that’s not been my intent.
I’ve spent hours today talking with England about how best to play Diplomacy. I’ve tried to give him some honest advice because he asked for it. But I don’t know his moves, I haven’t asked for them, and I’m not going to take advantage of that relationship to try to stab you. It legitimately did not cross my mind until you accused me of doing it.
So, I’m frustrated by this accusation.
And I appreciate all you’ve done for me, really I do. But “completely ending your eastern campaign” is *not* something you did for me; your alliance with Austria dictated that. 
I felt bad for betraying you while I was doing it, but even then I knew it was the only way to keep the game going in the face of your and Austria’s might. And it *wasn’t* “all along”, it was a few turns at best so that the rest of us would have a shot at you and Austria not pair-winning right out of the gate. And the only thing that keeps me from thinking you’re not gonna do just that on the next move anyway is my belief that you really do want the victory all to yourself, which is still consistent with everything you’ve done for me. Propping up a weak player at the expense of stronger ones is a classic tactic. (Continuing)
And so, by the way, is trying to shame someone for raising extremely legitimate concerns. Whenever I bring up suspicion of you, you’re quick to remind me how much you’ve done for me to put me on the defensive and make me feel indebted. Well frankly that reeks of dishonesty. I never asked you to do those things.
If you no longer trust me, so be it. I knew that was a risk when I made my confession. But i’d rather have a partnership based on mutual honesty. That’s another reason I confessed—you ought to know that my game philosophy (new as it is) is to trust the map and to trust history first and foremost. The parts of your history that I’ve seen indicate that you’re no saint, no matter what you may have done for me. And when the map shows that one player is clearly dominating and that player is you, you are being deeply naive if you think everyone else is just going to roll over and let you get away with it
No, all thumbs up from me. If I were lying to you, I’d smile and say “that sounds great.” I’m honest with you because I sincerely thought of us as partners.
Oh but you’re *not*! You agreed to warn me of unexpected moves, then didn’t. When I brought this up you ignored it and misdirected me in hopes I’d forget. You’ve revealed things to England without my permission, and then made up a story about it after the fact!

And you can’t be a real partner with someone who is depending on your good graces to survive. That’s not a partnership. We could never be real partners unless we had some notion of equality, and I’m outmatched in both skill and numbers.

You and Austria, however, were until recently a perfect example of a true partnership. Dot-parity, coordinated attacks, really beautiful work. So don’t act as if you don’t know this to be true. We were never a partnership of that kind.
Well, this is very disappointing to me, and I obviously disagree with the way you are characterizing me and this game. 

I have a reputation in this hobby for being sincere. Not for being duplicitous. It has always served me well. 

If you feel that way, then me continuing to explain myself isn’t going to change your mind. If you don’t want to work with me, then I can understand that. Let’s consider our deals and commitments to be void, and let’s play our games separately. 

If you have any deal you’d like to propose, I’ll consider them, but I won’t continue to try to help your game if you think I’m not sincerely trying to be helpful.
Well, this game just got less fun.
for you, maybe.
Sent to Germany, England, Austria, Russia: So, England, Germany, Russia, y’all played a great turn last turn. You got me to stab my long-time ally and you ended our pretty excellent 7-year run as an alliance. Russia told me he was with me if I stab Austria. England told me he wanted me to solo so long as I would “teach him” and help his along to second place. Then y’all pulled the rug out from under me. It was clever and effective. (End Part 1)
(Part 2)
At this stage, my excitement about the game has diminished quite a bit. And of course I’m happy to play on and take my lumps for falling for “Hey, I really want you to solo, just help me place second,” but if you guys just want to call it a five-way draw among us and grab a beer together, while reviewing the statistics, that’s really my preference. 

I am outnumbered and I obviously can’t solo. And I’m sure some of you in the north are eager to send everyone else flying my way, but I expect Russia and England to be careful, and so I’m not sure there is much room to move forward without simply tipping the board to Germany’s favor. 

I propose that we draw and hug it out.🤗
I'm down for a five-way draw. 

...and by the way, England was copy-pasting to me the most incriminating messages you sent them. So I knew you were giving England my moves. I do have a certain begrudging respect for you ability to deny, though 😉
Well, England is telling me he is happy to see me solo and wants second place...so, should I say “no”? I guess I should have. I was happy the way the game was going before all that.
Don't try and pin *your* greed and deceit on England! At least *own* it when you're ruthless
You have been given an apple laced with poison. England’s only move there was to make you hate me, and he did his job well. 

You should not let your view of me be defined by someone who has an incentive to make you never speak to me again. We can talk about it more after the game, but I had every intention of continuing to work with you, and I would have done that until England made his play.
I have no doubt you would have continued to work with me, but I take issue with someone who can be asked point-blank if they're sharing moves with another player and lie to my face. If you'd come clean, and explained how what you were doing actually *helped* me, somehow, we could have worked together. But you would rather have had me in the dark and that's not sustainable in a partnership.
I was trying to play both sides, and England was lying to me, and forwarding my press to try to incriminate me. So, yes, I lied, and so did England. I apologize.
Will you please either vote to draw, or let us know that you’d like to play this one out? I am finding it difficult to motivate myself to speak with anyone if the game is just going to draw shortly. Thoughts?
I did vote to 5-way draw! And I did so again for this season. So it’s not me who’s keeping this game alive
Well, as we approach the end of the academic study portion of the game, let me say once, with the truth detector activated, that I really enjoyed playing with you and thought you played really well.
Was it really your first game? You definitely played like a seasoned vet.
I really enjoyed playing with you, too! And yes, it really was my first game. Thanks for all your help and advice
Hello there! What's your general plan for this game? My inclination when I play Austria is to piss off as few people as possible, so I don't plan on making any overtly aggressive moves this turn.
Hi Austria. Nice to meet you, and looking forward to playing as your neighbor. 

Hmmmm, I hate playing as Italy. I rarely succeed. Frankly, I’ve recently tried early attacks on Austria, as Italy, AND IT KEEPS TURNING OUT POORLY. I’d really like to play this one as a tight-knit Central Trio if you have any appetite for that. Not sure if I should set up a Lepanto or go west, but I’d be happy to hear your thoughts on it.
That sounds good to me. I think probably what would work best is if you and Germany go west while Turkey and I contain and/or eat Russia, then once I've picked up some Russian dots and gotten some good position, you split your fleets to help me take Turkey and help Germany take England.
I like that. Let me talk it over with Germany.
I’m not sure whether Germany is keen on attacking France. Perhaps you and I should focus on Turkey?
Yeah, honestly, the more I think about it, the more I think it'll just be easier to wipe turkey off the map really quickly. I've done it in tourneys a few times before and it just makes everything simpler.
👌 So I’ll open as a standard Lepanto. Sounds good.
Nice start!

Really glad to see Turkey open north, and glad to see that you were true to your word with me. I feel like we’re in a really strong position to control the East!

What are you thinking?
Yep! Good start, now we've just gotta follow through properly.
So, do I just convoy my army to Tunis?

Also, do you want me to bounce you in Trieste?
Sure, Trieste bounce is a good idea. And yeah, standard Lepanto with the convoy.
So...how shall we go about this? I’m kind of thinking that you and I should eat some Turkey.
That's exactly what I'm thinking. I'm going to send Greece into the Aegean, you send Ionian into Eastern Med.
Okay. Cool! Do you mind if I take Greece this year while you take Bulgaria? That will keep us even, and should be guaranteed. I can just convoy an army to Greece in Spring while you move to Aegean, and I can support you to Bulgaria in the Fall. This also means you don’t have to rotate your armies all the way to Greece, which will allow you to mobilize against Russia faster when the time comes. 

Thoughts?
Any thoughts on this idea?
I am going to send my fleet over to Eastern Med and we can work this out next turn.
Sorry about that, today got a little nuts. Figuring it out next turn is probably the best call, once we see what's worked and what hasn't.
Okay, thank you for being true to your word. 

I think we’re in great shape. My major concern on the board right now is E/F, which is likely going to take down Germany quickly and become a major force. 

It is really important to me to get a build here so that I can try to keep France in check a bit. Will you agree that You get Bulgaria, I get Greece, and we can move forward with both of us at 5?

I really think that the two of us can dominate this game if we keep working together.
Yep, I'm just fine with that.
Great!

I will convoy Tunis to Greece. If you can support that move, that would be great. And it looks like you’ll have no problem supporting Greece to Bulgaria.
I'll have a more direct response once the retreats are all resolved and I'm not extrapolating what the board state will probably be, but that seems eminently doable.
How’s it looking over there?
Looking solid! I don't think we actually need to coordinate all that much, we're in a really good position.
Just to be clear, should I expect Greece will be open?
Yep, it will be. I'll want it back eventually, but for now it's yours.
You, sir, are a terrific ally. This was more than you needed to do, but makes me feel like this is really a long term thing! Thank you.
We can do great things together, long term. I figured a down-payment now against that great future would be worth it.
Plus, you ever try digging out a talented Italy as Austria? It's a pain in the fuckin neck! :P
🤗
Yeah, let’s just work together. Should be a good one for both of us.
What should I build? I’m pretty undecided and would be willing to let you choose.
I think probably a fleet will serve you best, in terms of flexibility. We've got Turkey, he's doomed by numbers, so you want to start thinking France.
👌
Okay, how would you like to approach this turn? I’m at your disposal.
I think what we do is, AEG convoys GRE-SMY with support from EAS while BUL taps CON
That's just an initial thought, though - if you have a better idea I'm all ears
My concern there is that Arm doesn’t have much to do other than support Smyrna, and I don’t know if we want to rely on Russia helping. I think he has a serious incentive to prevent us from succeeding too quickly against Turkey.
Very good point. Perhaps you tap SMY with EAS and I use AEG to support BUL-CON, with the intention of then doing the convoy in the fall?
What do you think of Aegean support Bul to Con while I cut support in Smy? That is guaranteed so long as Russia does not support Con back to Bul (unlikely), and we don’t have to tell Russia the complete plan.
Yes, we xposted, but we are thinking the same way.
Well it appears our messages passed each other in the internet's series of tubes, but, great minds, etc etc
Good. Consider it done.
I’m thinking about sending an army over to Piedmont to keep France honest. Do you think that is a good idea or a terrible idea? I just want to avoid a stampede over Germany, and I feel like forcing him to use an army in Marseilles to bounce with me is worth dedicating one army from me. But I don’t want to antagonize I’ve him either. I keep going back and forth about it. What do you think?
I think probably we give France one season to see what they do. England build F LON and France built F BRE, which is something we should keep an eye on before moving.
Okay. If he does say anything to you about moving towards me, would you please let me know? I feel like he’s in an awfully strong position, and it makes me nervous.
You'll be the first to know. Man, isn't this game simpler when you're being honest?
👍
France says they're getting radio silence from England, which is probably good news for us.
Russia says you're trying to get him to attack me, heh
That sounds like the kind of thing Russia would say. 

I have generally told Russia that I am not close with you and I’d be willing to attack you, but I’ve never “tried to get him to attack you. That is a complete 👎. 

Our alliance seems to be the one trusting alliance in the game. Everyone is going to try to break us up. We need to prevent it.
That's about what I figured. Wanted to let you know it was being tried.
Also, England is extremely unhappy with France.
Yeah, sounds like England is attacking France. That’s good for us. We seem to be the only alliance that has its act together.
Which can mean only profit for us, as long as we stick together.
Word. 

Listen, I’m an alliance player. That’s how I’ve always been. I think it’s the only way to play. I don’t like to shift around. I like a close working relationship with a partner. That’s what we have, and that’s what I plan to stick with as long as you’ll have me.
'til death or end of beta do us part, then 😛
That said, I don’t want anyone else to know that. So if people ask, I’ll tell them that I’d be happy to attack you.
Oh naturally, I'll bullshit the hell outta everyone else.
Sooooooooo. Tyrolia?
Test
You don’t like it? I figured it was the same as Venice. If I wanted to attack you, I could have just moved to Trieste any time. 

My purpose in Tyrolia is to keep Munich black. I’m just going to support Munich holding. I don’t want Germany to get trampled.
I'd have preferred a heads-up, is all.
So, we going with the same plan? I convoy Greece over to Smyrna?
Sorry — I’ve been slammed all day. Just looking at this again now.
Okay, I’m so sorry. I got distracted again. Yes! I will order GRE to SMY, EAS S GRE to SMY, TYR S MUN holding. 

Will you allow me a build this turn or do you plan on retaking Greece now?
Sounds good to me.
Any word on Greece?

Basically, if I get a build this turn I can turn around and smash France. If I don’t, that will be a more tepid attack.
I've got no need to immediately take it, since I'm picking up Con.
Okay. Thank you. 😊
Hey, by the way, I am going to be candid here: I have thought about attacking you. I really have. But I have recently arrived at the conclusion that this would be a poor path forward. I’m not going to do it. 

I’ll move on France now. That will give you the peace of mind to know that my units will be occupied and far from you.
Glad to hear, yep!
Let’s just keep right on working together, and press our advantage b
I suggest you move Alb to Ser and prepare to attack Russia in Spring.
You can have Ank, but I really do think it makes sense that I keep Greece. Ending up with 2 centers from Turkey/Balkans seems fair, with you getting everything else, yes?
Yeah, I think I can live with that.
Sorry it took me a moment to respond, it's the MLB home run derby tonight
Well that, I can understand.
Look, like I said, I was wavering a bit, especially during the long weekend. But, I’ve taken a close look, and I just think that this alliance has unique staying power. I really do. We both have room to grow. Now that England attacked France, there isn’t really anyone who can stop us. This can work long term, and work well.
I wholeheartedly agree. Neither of us benefits from attacking the other.
So, This one seems easy. I’ll support you to Ankara, and you are guaranteed either Ankara or Rumania:

Con - Ank
Smy S Con - Ank
Age - Con
EAS S Smy holding
Ven - Pie
Tyr S Mun holding
TYS - LYO
Tun - WES
Ser - Rum
Bul S Ser - Rum
Bud S Ser - Rum
Vie - Gal

Sound right?
I had already entered every single one of those orders, except for AEG-CON, which is in now. It's nice being on the same page, isn't it?
👍
I kind of figured. It’s a pretty straight-forward move for both of us, and likely gains for both of us. This alliance is in a really healthy place.
So, I assume you're going to support Ank to hold?
Also, fyi, I'm in transit to SkyCon out in Montana, so I might not be the most communicative gent this weekend.
Hi Austria. I apologize for the delay. Quite a busy day for me yesterday. 

I have no problem supporting Ank to hold.
I also want to say — looks like that support ensures you get two builds. My own attack on France is not quite so successful. Do you mind if I borrow Trieste this turn to stay even with you and keep my momentum going west. I’ll place another fleet with it, which further locks me in moving away from you. I think that’s actually quite good for you, but I know some players get prickly about home centers.
A dot is a dot is a dot. It's better for the long term health of the alliance, and I'm still building one. More importantly, your best/easiest route to growth still lies in France, not with me, so I don't see you having a ton of incentive to go after me. Go for it.
OMG. 😮 You are my favorite ally of all time. This just happened. You just past the threshold. It used to be this guy who was playing France to my England. Funny dude. Great stories. But he never sacrificed a home center in the interest of parity. 

You are a rare gem.
Do you think 17-17 is an okay result for a beta test?
I feel like I can’t stab you now. So I’d like to simply crush the board with you.
I've never said no to 17/17, lol
What's your planned build?
F Nap. Sound good?
Yeah, Naples makes it look like we might actually be fighting, go for it.
Well, I hope you had a nice weekend. Do you think we have much to discuss here? Is there anything you’d like me to do with my three eastern units? Do you want me to pretend to fight you, or shall I just move away or hold still? I don’t really have any idea what I should be doing.
My weekend was great! I placed 8th at SkyCon, which was a disproportionately talented tourney, so I'm feeling quite good about myself. I'd like your army in Smyrna to support my move from Ankara to Armenia, but other than that, I see no point in pretending to fight each other, so I figure you might as well move stuff west to take care of your new main front.
Okay, that works for me.
Do you want me to move Eastern Med to Aegean? If your move to Armenia works (likely), you may want to use my fleet to bounce with you at Con to keep The Russian fleet out. But totally up to you. I don’t care either way.
Right now I've just got my fleet in Con tapping Black, so it'll probably stay full. Get the fleet where it can help with France.
Thoughts on where we go from here?
My units are at your disposal.
I think the best way to take Rum would look like this:
Bul - Rum
Ser and Bud S Bul - Rum
Con - Bul (EC)
Arm and Smy bounce in Ank
Tyr and Gal bounce in Vienna
 (Anticipating that Black Sea will likely move to Bul to cut support)
Everything still okay?
I like it, yeah, let's do that.
Folks are trying to pry us apart, but their arguments aren't making a ton of sense.
Yeah, I’m getting the same treatment. 

If we stay together, we win together.
Argh! I KNEW Black Sea would try for Bulgaria!!! Shoot!
My wife says I am bossy and uniquely inflexible. I don’t want you to feel that way too! How shall we approach this next turn? I think we need to put in a good set of orders here to turn the tide against Russia.
Here's what I've got right now: 
A Arm - Sev
F BLA - Con
A Bud S Gal - Rum
A Gal - Rum
A Rum - Bul
A Ser S Rum - Bul
I figure if you bounce me in Con, that piffs the Russian fleet.
Yeah, not bad. The danger is in Rumania. Are you thinking Gal - Ukr, Bud - Rum? Shall I order Tyr - Vie?

I think that is likely best as it keeps Russia out of your centers for sure, and it should easy to support me out in the Fall once Russia has one less unit.
Yep, that seems like the best course of action.
So look, I’m at your disposal in the east. I think the best bet may be for you to support me from Vienna to Galicia, but I’m willing to do something else if you like something else better.
Frankly, if I were you, I’d be worried about a stab from Italy here. 🤭 But I’m not going to do that. You e been extremely good to me. And it would be a very bad time for me to begin a war in the east while all my units are west. So you’re stuck with me as an ally.
Yep, that all checks out, and I was thinking Vie-Gal was the best call, so let's make that happen.
Well that is damn annoying. I’m surprised he tried for Vienna — would have thought he would go for Rumania.
I do think that we can guarantee you Sev this year, which should finally crack this nut.
Yeah. I'd also like to address the center imbalance a bit more directly - as you pick up dots in the west, I'd like to start picking Greece, Vienna, and Ankara back up.
Er, Smyrna, not Ankara.
Totally agree.
Yes, we need to take that in swiftly. Let’s see what the builds look like and make a plan.
Hi Austria — So, this is a big turn for us. I am absolutely committed to getting you a build. I wish we could get you more than one, but unfortunately the fact that you lost Vienna last turn makes that impossible. 

So, it seems to me that the most important way to get you a build is to take Galicia in Spring. I don’t care if I move there, or you move there, but we need to make some room around Budapest so that you can build there.
Yeah, I'd appreciate your support from Bud-Gal.
Maybe something like this:
Bud - Gal
Vie S Bud - Gal
Rum - Sev
BLS S Rum - Sev
Arm S Rum - Sev
Bul - Rum
Ser - Bud

If the move to Gal does not work, and you don’t get Sev, then in Fall you can order Bud - Tri while Vie and Ser bounce in Bud to ensure you get a build.
Oh yeah that looks better than what I had in mind. Let's roll with that.
👍
One tweak: I am worried that Russia could take Rumania with the move set I proposed. You can prevent that by having Serbia support Bul - Rum. I think that’s better than Ser - Bud, and it makes sense because you want Bud open after the Fall anyway. That should mean that you won’t lose any ground this turn, and you’ll likely take Sev.
Oh yeah, good tweak, makes sense. So ordered.
Hey — man, Russia keeps guessing correctly. I am sincerely sorry that that move did not work. 

Thoughts on what to do this turn? I wish England or Germany would pick off a Russia. Center in the north, but they seem content to let Russia put up his road block.
Use Tyrolia to tap Bohemia, Vienna supports Budapest to Galicia, and Rumania taps Ukraine. Unless Bohemia goes to Vienna, that guarantees a move to Galicia.
Also, for my comfort, do you mind if I pick Trieste back up?
I like that. I was thinking that you would move Bud back to Tri, but this is much better. It keeps forward momentum. And yes, you should take back Tri now. That will make builds easier as we move forward.
Also, actually, I don't have anything for Bulgaria to do, and you're guaranteed two dots this turn. Can I take Greece back too? I can bank a build for the future regardless of what happens, and you stay even. You don't really need a build right now.
Hmmm. I’m cool with you taking Trieste. I’m not sure that taking Greece now is the right move. 

In the West, I will take Liverpool, but not Portugal. I need to use my Spanish fleet to support MAO so that I can convoy an army to Liverpool. And I’m just in no hurry to take out France. So if you take Greece, you would be taking an Italian unit off the board and not building one yourself.
Also, seems like there is plenty of risk that Russia could try for Rumania. Why not use Bulg to support Rum, while having Rum and BLS Support Arm to Sev?
All that said, if you feel like you need to take two from me this turn in order to keep working with me, I can live with that.
The alliance is much more important to me than the dot.
I'll take another look at it and get back to you.
Oh man. I’m getting a lot of hate mail out west. Not fun. I think Germany has a pretty low opinion of me, and it sounds like she and Russia are developing a bit of a romance. 

I am totally cool with you taking back Trieste this turn, and I am thankful that you loaned it to me in the first place. But I’d prefer if you wait to take Greece until you can actually use the build. It would make things quite a bit tougher for me if I have to take a unit off the board especially if we don’t get an extra unit in the east to compensate.
Yeah, if you're not picking up Portugal, then I'll let Greece be.
Argh. I blew it!

I’m sorry. You were a terrific ally. I misread the board and thought that I had a clear solo run. England basically told me that he was going to help me solo, so I felt like I ought to just go for it. He bamboozled me, and for me to stab you. It was a mistake. My sincerest apologies.
I mean, I'm gonna have to fight you for at least a little bit. We'll see what happens.
Yeah, I get that. It makes me sick because it’s likely that you’ll just get squeezed between me and Russia. Fighting me is not really a path toward viability for you, and that’s my fault. 

I’m sorry this happened. I really am. I misjudged the situation and I fear I’ve ruined both our games. If you can stick around and insist on getting some of the fruits of smashing me and not letting Russia get them all, that would be justice.
Oh, I'm definitely sticking around, and if you want to make it easier for me to pick up some dots, that'd go a long way to making me more viable and more inclined to resume the alliance.
Good.
I’m game for a draw if you guys want to wrap it up here.
I'd take a draw.
Sounds like Germany is the holdout.
I’m so mad at myself for taking the bait last turn. I had both Russia and England urging me to go for a solo, and it was just stupid of me to believe them. 

I’m going to try to leave both Tri and Bud open to you this turn. All yours.
Sent to Germany, England, Austria, Russia: So, England, Germany, Russia, y’all played a great turn last turn. You got me to stab my long-time ally and you ended our pretty excellent 7-year run as an alliance. Russia told me he was with me if I stab Austria. England told me he wanted me to solo so long as I would “teach him” and help his along to second place. Then y’all pulled the rug out from under me. It was clever and effective. (End Part 1)
(Part 2)
At this stage, my excitement about the game has diminished quite a bit. And of course I’m happy to play on and take my lumps for falling for “Hey, I really want you to solo, just help me place second,” but if you guys just want to call it a five-way draw among us and grab a beer together, while reviewing the statistics, that’s really my preference. 

I am outnumbered and I obviously can’t solo. And I’m sure some of you in the north are eager to send everyone else flying my way, but I expect Russia and England to be careful, and so I’m not sure there is much room to move forward without simply tipping the board to Germany’s favor. 

I propose that we draw and hug it out.🤗
I believe everyone is in for the draw. I've got it set, and I'm set for early adjudication.
Do you think this game is going to draw?
So, did you veto the draw?
Buongiorno! 
Be kinda nice to know if you're looking to move in a direction  I might be interested in participating in.  I fully understand if it's too early to know, just know that channels and minds are both open .
Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen Wintergreen. 

I’m not writing to anyone else until I get things squared away with you. I LOVE the Wintergreen alliance. It works in the short-term (we only need to get A/T to fight) and it works in the long-term (resolves East before West, and we can’t really stab each other). Can we do this?

I don’t care if we target T first or A first. I’ll let you decide. But I want to work as your partner. I am just hoping that you’re brilliant and fun too!

I literally will not message anyone else until you and I have a plan. I want it to be clear to you that you’re the ally I want.
Well, Italy and France are, in my opinion, some of the best possible partners for Russia, so how could I possibly turn down such enthusiastic overtures from one of them?
Lovely. Would you rather we target Turkey first or Austria? I’m okay either way.
To be perfectly honest, that's hard to say right now, since the decision doesn't really affect my opening moves any (the standard southern opening spring moves are equally useful against either one), and I'd likely need to adjust based on what else happens on the Spring turn.  Easiest just to say I'm opening South, flexibly considering the follow-through against either one of them.
Okay. Fair enough. One reason it might matter is because I could open with an aggressive attack on Austria if you want to blitz him quickly (e.g., DMZ Gal and then break it). Or you could organize a bounce in Gal and then not move there. On the other hand, if you’d prefer to take out Turkey first, I could go the standard Lepanto route. I’m happy to go either way, but I’d really like to coordinate with you if you’re game.

Maybe we both need a fuller picture of what is happening first. I’ll begin to reach out to others now.
Sounds great - and here's where it's useful to know Austria has already indicated a bounce in Galicia, so opportunity to blitz him through there is severely limited.
Okay, that’s good to know. Thank you. I sent Austria a general first message offering friendship. I’ll let you know how things play out.
Hearing anything interesting? Both Austria and Turkey are acting cagey and conservative with me so far.
Hey, so, Austria seems to want to Lepanto now. 

You’re still the ally I want. And I’d like either to cut down Austria quickly or cut down Turkey quickly. 

If we decide to take out Austria first, I’d like you to let Austria in to Gal (just tell him this was a mistake). This will make it very hard for him to defend against me.

If we decide to take out Turkey first, bounce Austria, and I’ll open as a traditional Lepanto.

Thoughts?
Let's do Turkey first. I'll bounce Galicia
👌
Hi Russia, how’s it going? I hope this turn finds you well. 

I think my move is going to be fairly boring, but I’m still game for some adventure if you have any ideas. 

Also, would you mind asking Austria for a bounce again in Galicia? I’d just like to have a decent sense of what his units are doing. 

Any other thoughts?
Can do.
He doesn't seem that interested in a Galicia bounce, fwiw
Okay, thank you for letting me know. That helps!
I believe that Turkey is in for a world of hurt soon. I think you just need to expel that yellow army from Sev, and you should be in for a swift turnaround. 

Let’s kill Turkey, and then we kill Austria. Long live Wintergreen.
That's the plan, mate
That went reasonably well. Looks like Austria is going to pick up Greece, so get wherever you can get and I'll get you into doors where I can
Obviously Bulgaria, not Greece
Awesome. Thank you Russia. Any chance you can tap Black Sea this turn? I’m planning to take Greece, but I need Austria’s move to Bulgaria to succeed.
His move is guaranteed
What am I missing? It looks like it’s only guaranteed if you tap BLS. Otherwise, 3 - 3.
It's 4-3.  Rum, Ser, Gre, Aeg
Ah, cool. I did not realize that Rum was supporting Gre to Bul. That works too! Thank you.
Hi friend: can you please NOT support England into Denmark? I think that the last thing we want to see here is E/F trample over Germany. I feel like this is really important. Thoughts?
Ah, I did not see this in time.  And one of the upshots was learning that England talks too damn much, so I probably won't be helping him much going forward 😃
I feel like, perhaps it’s time to go all out against both T and A here? Something like this:
Ven - Tri
War - Gal
Rum - BLS
Sev S Ukr - Rum

I may lose Greece this year, but I feel like it’s worth it to gain some momentum. 

Thoughts?
Hi Russia,

My moves very much depend on you here so I’m looking forward to hearing from you. I think this is the right time for us both to hit Austria, but I’m not going to do it if you’re not on board. 

Thoughts?
Hey, sorry -focused on guests for the holiday. I'm currently ordered to move units around so I can move on Austria, without moving on him this turn. Basically getting the fleet out of the way.
Okay. Let’s shoot for next turn. Thank you!
Russia, argh....

I sincerely want to work with you man. Truly. But if you sell me out and try to use what I tell you against me, it makes it really hard. 

Austria went right back to me and told me that you sold me out.
I want to move beyond this. But I need to know that what I tell you stays between us, or else I just can’t trust you and I can’t speak with you. 

I’d like to hear your side of this story. And I’d like to know that you’re not just going to tell Austria again. Let’s use this bump in the road as a lesson to work better together.
Eh? Are you really claiming I've been telling him anything useful, given that I said nothing about Greece?
I mean, that looked kinda arranged to me, but nonetheless I gave him no heads up about your plan to move in, which should make it pretty clear I have no intention of passing on potentially useful info to him. 😀
So, where do we stand now?
You're in the driver's seat for path forward. I'm going to take Ankara, I assume you've negotiated the taking of Smyrna.  Austria either needs to be given a path forward or dealt with, and England most likely needs dealt with. So... You have lots of options on path forward, and I'm mostly inclined to Ride along as most of my attention is likely to be in the North.
Well, here is my honest assessment: if you want to work with me, you have to commit to attack Austria with me. If you’re not interested in that, I’m not going to attack Austria, and it will basically be his choice whether he wants to attack me next or attack you next.
Frankly, I am still a little wary after the last time we discussed this, you ratted me out to Austria. But I can get over that if you actually want to be my partner.
I'm still not really sure how you think I "rated you out" to Austria given that I've really told him nothing useful at all.  Greece was the test of that -even though I'm retrospect it's obvious it was an arrangement, it's also obvious I didn't say anything to him when I thought you were stabbing him
But whatever, water under the bridge. I'm willing to move on Austria as soon as you give the word. I thought that's what I pretty much just said -I'll follow your lead in the South. You want to roll? Let's roll.
Orders are in, moves on Austria, up to you to join in.
What moves on Austria would you like to see, and what have you ordered? I’ll make the move now if it makes sense. If not now, then next turn.
Yeah, you missed me after I'd gone to bed, but as you can see I did make the move on him, and we are apparently spoiling for a fight.  Of course, with you reoriented the way you are, seems unlikely you're on board for continuing that line of discussion.
Well, I’m not completely opposed. I build an army in Venice, after all. What are you thinking?
I mean, the only decision point is Ank/Smy/Con, right?  That's just a matter of choosing the mover - everything else is straightforward one-power tactics
Well, we should really talk to each other more.
Ya think?
FWIW, I'm still on board with cooperating to take down Austria, if that wasn't obvious
I’m not sure I can save the Bulgarian fleet this turn, but I think you would help yourself by taking Galicia.
I'm not sure you have a vested interest in saving my fleet in any event -you'd much rather be the undisputed fleet power. And that's just fine.
Well, either way, I can’t help. But I do think you can take Gal without problem.
That was already the plan, and then he walked out anyway. 
Anyway, my course is both set and obvious, so it's really just a question of if you're going to take all the free dots. 😀
Will you be around near the deadline this turn?
Monday at noon ET?  Yeah, I should be available around that time.
😎
Hi Russia, still there?
Russia!? Come back!
Yes, I'm here
Cool. Any chance you’d like to team up with me and England?
I mean, sure. My goal right now is just to hammer Austria, and that coalition helps further that goal, so...
Cool. I expect Vienna will be empty this turn. Boh - Vie should be a winner.
Ahh...BOH - Vienna. Why’d you try to take it from Gal?
Didn't log in fast enough to change it. And not really upset about it, either - this way my line is still mostly intact, which is a bit of a priority until you make an overtly anti-Austrian move.
Fair enough. At least you can see that I was sincere.
Aye. As was I. 😀
So, how are things going over there Comrade?
I’m feeling like it’s just about time for you and me to make things official and go steady.
I believe that England would like me to support you to Munich in the Fall. And that’s possible. But perhaps getting you to Budapest might work out better for you? I don’t know — how do you the board right now?
Things are pretty well. Yes, this looks to be the year you can just quietly slip the knife in and take pretty much everything.
And I'm easy either way -no need to make that call right now, as this is the boring turn for me
Well...if I “take everything,” then we end up with a boring, large draw. I’m not in solo position. So, believe it or not, I’d rather you get the spoils out East. If I get much bigger, I’ll be fighting the whole board, and I’ll lose that fight.
Well, damn, guess I can't bamboozle you into that position then. :)
Eh — I think it’s a better position for you to get a bunch of centers and work as a team anyway. Beats a five-way draw.
Shall we get you Budapest or Munich this year?
I think Austria is likely to try to retake some of his centers this year, so you may have some openings regardless.
Presumably Budapest is the better option, but again I'm not really moving much in the spring, so it's easy to remain noncommittal on that right this moment. Unless you're making a hard move right now, which I doubt - you also benefit from the likely ability to just walk in on the fall.
Alright, now it's specific planning time.  And Munich clearly doesn't seem to make much sense now.
Okay, Let’s get you into Rumania and Budapest this turn. I think I can do that, as Austria wants to take Trieste and Greece, which will open up room to maneuver. As far as I know, Ser is moving to Tri and Bul is moving to Gre. I think that you can take out Bud/Rum with Gal - Bud (supported by Vie) and Sev - Rum (supported by Ukr). The trick will be keeping Sev safe, but I think we can do that too, as I can recommend that Austria self-bounce there to keep me honest.
I am picking up some gains out west, so I risk a severe backlash if I gain anything in the east.  I’d love to see you pick up two here and take a bit of the pressure off me.
I can work with that.  Grrr. Out tonight, so less stability to chat, but I'm with you here.
👌
Is this thing back on?
Ah, good. Nice run in the West you have going there
I'd probably be trying to push a stop the leader narrative right now, except Mitch hasn't talked to me since I pointed out that rolling on me was only going to net him two dots before he hit a wall, and that was two or three years ago. So... Eff him. 😀
Sent to Germany, England, Austria, Russia: So, England, Germany, Russia, y’all played a great turn last turn. You got me to stab my long-time ally and you ended our pretty excellent 7-year run as an alliance. Russia told me he was with me if I stab Austria. England told me he wanted me to solo so long as I would “teach him” and help his along to second place. Then y’all pulled the rug out from under me. It was clever and effective. (End Part 1)
(Part 2)
At this stage, my excitement about the game has diminished quite a bit. And of course I’m happy to play on and take my lumps for falling for “Hey, I really want you to solo, just help me place second,” but if you guys just want to call it a five-way draw among us and grab a beer together, while reviewing the statistics, that’s really my preference. 

I am outnumbered and I obviously can’t solo. And I’m sure some of you in the north are eager to send everyone else flying my way, but I expect Russia and England to be careful, and so I’m not sure there is much room to move forward without simply tipping the board to Germany’s favor. 

I propose that we draw and hug it out.🤗
I think most of us have the draw set already
Hey italy! good luck this game. I'm guessing you and Austria will be pals, you and France will be rivals?
Well good luck to you too! No idea yet who is a friend. Have you heard anything interesting?
I have some agreements with France. If those are upheld, I'd bet France goes for Por and Spain in 1901. You might want to ask about whether a fleet gets built in Mar during the 1901 build, if you haven't already, as this would be an indicator of aggression towards you.
Germany seems like a bit of a wild card. Haven't talked in depth with Austria.
Do you have any sort of aggression in your opening, or are you just planning to be neutral and secure Tun?
You know, I really haven’t decided. I’m trying to get clear answers from my neighbors, and they are all pretty slow to answer. So I really haven’t decided. Is there something you want me to do?
Well definitely make sure you get your fleet to Tun by the fall. I'd like to see you do well, as Italy is kind of the underdog on the map. Have you agreed to France about Piedmont at all?
No, we have not yet talked about Piedmont.
Well, if you're looking to make France a little nervous, that would be your move. Ven - Pie, Rom - Ven, Nap to TYS.
Then you secure Tun with your fleet in the fall. For the unit in Pie, you can decide to bait France into a bounce in Mar, but then just hold instead. France would move from Spain to Mar and miss securing the fifth supply center. This is certainly aggressive, but it also keeps you and France on a more level playing field.
Well, I’d be inclined to do that if I knew you were moving to the Channel and Wales. If you want for both of us to go all in at the same time, then let’s go.
Yeah, that makes sense. Unfortunately we've declared a DMZ in the channel through 1902, so I can't commit to the stab right now. I still don't think it's an awful play for you. If France gets a fleet in Mar and has one parked in Spain s.c. at the start of 1902, that's going to be a little threatening for you.
(1) If you’ve declared a DMZ, then you ARE in position to do this if you want to do it. (2) I’m not going to attack France on my own.
Yeah, everything you're saying makes sense. When I make specific agreements like the DMZ, I generally try to hold them, especially early game. Honestly, I'd rather the three of us pick apart germany to start. Maybe we could convince France to help you into Munich in the Fall?
Hi England — just sort of checking in to hear how things are going. How does the board look to you right now?
Great time to check in. France and Germany are in conflict, and don't seem poised to collaborate on invading me, which I'm happy about. Russia's looking a little troubled with losing Sev. You look poised to lepanto to turkey, and it looks like you'll pull it off without the Austrian convoy, unless that new fleet is headed west. Also, I feel like you and/or Austria may have your eyes on Munich.
Any thoughts here?
Just about the state of the board? Or did you send a message after mine that didn’t come through?
Ah, I sent a really long message about Germany. You didn’t get it?
Nah. Maybe it was a bot-killer message
Probably best to split it up
Rats.
Here is an image of the message I sent.
I’ve been on pins and needles for two days awaiting a response!!!
Haha sorry about that. No image received. The bot may not send them through
Ahhhhhhh!
Now I have to retype it👎👎👎
I have kind of an odd favor to ask. And I happen to know it’s in your best interest, but it will require a big picture, long-term sort of view of the game. 

This is Germany’s very first game of Diplomacy. And he’s clearly in over his head. You’re positioned to smash him. There’s no doubt about that. But the real winner if you do that is France. (End part 1)
France has FOUR armies, and now he has a wide open runway to roll right over Germany. If you help him, you’re going to regret it. Look two game years ahead, France is going to be in a crazy good position. 

On the other hand, if you change course now and go get France instead, France is NEVER going to be able to build a second fleet. He will be so much easier to destroy. And Germany is so green...he’ll be much easier to take down second. 

I just...I can see where this is headed. I know it’s attractive just to take that easy build. But that is the apple of knowledge and France is the devilish serpent (end part 2)
I really REALLY believe that it’s better for you and me for you to switch course and take out France now. I’d be happy to help and give you most of the spoils. And I think this would be a great springboard for a dominant England/Italian alliance that can win this game. If only I could get this message to go through....
(End)
All of this is fair. I’m aware that germany’s a first-timer, and I ran through similar reasoning to yours when trying to choose who to side with.
If I had known where you stood in this, it might have swayed my opinion. I was worried about you and austria making a play for Munich and then Russia applying more pressure in the north.
One additional piece of my reasoning is that France is a stronger player than me and others probably know this. After Germany is gone, France is the bigger threat. If Germany and I had taken France together, I would have ended up the bigger threat (i.e. the next target).
I’m going to get Russia in on the German takedown. You really think the three of us can’t handle france together once germany is gone?
Can you tell germany to self-bounce in ruhr? Unless i’m missing something, that line holds until i support into holland (which I haven’t been asked to do yet). The French upside to taking on germany can be contained. If you get Munich out of this, do you still think it’s a bad plan?
I vehemently do not want Munich.
Also i’m wayy wrong it’s a fleet in holland haha
I do think it is a much better plan for both of us to side with Germany against France. I just think that France could pull in Austria or Turkey against me and he could pull in Russia against you. 

Germany won’t do that sort of counter.
The more I look at this board, the more I want to focus on an E/I Alliance. And I think the only thing standing in our way is France. I don’t see Germany as any kind of obstacle at all.
Especially given that France is locked into armies right now, not fleets, I think we would be wasting a real opportunity if we let France grow a bit more.
I’m sorry I did not come to you with this earlier. That’s just my bad. I’ve been kind of lazy, and I wasn’t really sure I wanted to weigh in about the west at all. But, I’ve changed my mind?

I think E/I can dominate here. But we’ve got to keep France from ever building a second fleet. I think that’s the way that both you and me get really big.
I see your points, but a couple of things: 1) France has another build guaranteed this year, and that will likely be a fleet, 2) We may be able to keep France away from all of the German supply centers
Kie and Mun bounce in Ruh, Hol cuts support from Bel. This holds Ruh unless France chooses to send Bel in and let Germany into Holland.
This holds the line unless I give support.
What if Austria gets Munich?
I stabbed Germany, and so I’m hesitant to try collaboration now.
Ok, ok. I’m open to going against france. I messaged germany. We’ll see how she responds. I’m taking denmark this year regardless. The stab on france would involve me taking the channel unexpectedly next spring and helping germany into belgium maybe
These are all good responses. And I get that you don’t want to turn around and stab France now. 

I do think that I can help you diplomatically with Germany. I think that, if you really want to work with me and Germany, I can get G on board.
Alright, well we can chat next year after builds then. I’m certainly open to it. I told germany to not bother saving denmark (it’s guaranteed for me with Russian support) amd instead do the self bounce in Ruh with Kei and Mun to keep France out, cutting support in Bel with Hol. I think that move is important this fall to keep France out.
France just tried to tell me the Brest build was anti-Italian haha
Funny enough, he tells me it’s anti-English.
Haha. So are we still both anti-French?
I’d like to get germany on board with helping me take the channel (or at least not stopping me). I’m sure germany would be excited to hit me back though :/. I’ll play dumb with France for now
Okay, I’ll try to get Germany on board.
Germany seems on board. Maybe i’m setting myself up to get stabbed. Hope i’m backing the right horse on this one. I’ll shoot for the channel in the spring and then we get germany into belgium. Are you planning to move west?
Was hoping to see something a little more anti-french in your moves. My homeland is toast if you don’t put any pressure on France in the south.
Hi England — I’m sorry for the delay!
I can move to attack France in the Spring if you like. For now, I think that mobilizing Germany to attack France is your best bet (and shouldn’t be too hard).
You know what? This isn’t really fair of me. If you will commit to the France attack, I’ll move on him now. Are you ready to go all out against him? This could actually work out really well for both of us.
I’m ready, but i may want your advice on some of the tactics. My plan is to completely cold shoulder France in negotiations and start an attack. We’ll want to get germany on board, but I think Germany is playing a bit neutral for survival purposes right now.
I agree with regard to Germany’s strategy, but I believe he hates France most and he will be with you if both you and I move on France now. 

France is getting no builds. Let’s just put the clamps on now! I will move to TYS and Tun if you will move either to take Belgium, or to position your fleets at Irish/Channel. 

If we both take the plunge, there is nothing he can do.
France can support himself into England though, and I think he plans to because he was asking for Germany to cut support in Nth (which she plans not to). The only way to hold the channel is to support from Nth.
into England => into English channel
I'm planning army yorkshire to wales, which allows for the convoy through the channel next year, and allows me to bounce in Lvp if France moves to IRI
Okay, I buy that. If you commit to moving the army to Wales and you don’t attack Germany,  I’ll move on France.
I'm committed. Are you planning to cut support in Munich for a Russian invasion of Berlin?
No way. I am supporting Munich. We don’t want Russia or France rolling over Germany. Germany will give us her centers in time. Let’s keep them German until that time comes.
Can you use Den to cut support in Baltic if I make sure Germany does not retake Den?
Germany has to do something else with Munich? To protect Ruhr I guess?
go team!
Cool. Let’s do this.
Are you LYO and WES this Spring with the fleets? And will Venice go to Pie? Also, what is your communication with France like? I'm in favor of all three of us going totally dark on France until the job is done. And at some point we should talk about a fair split of the French supply centers just so there's no surprises.
Yes, those are my moves.
And I don’t have any dialogue with France right now. I suppose that’s lazy. You want me to stay quiet or try to feel him out? There is no way he will believe anything I say after my last move.
I kind of want to starve him of info. I’m currently giving him radio silence. Germany is getting some inside info, pretending to be friendly, etc. but that will end shortly (assuming I don’t see a surprise german stab of cutting the nth channel support, but i think it’s unlikely).
France apparently plans to move out of Ruh, probably to defend the south. France will lose 1 supply center certainly, maybe 2 this year
What are your thoughts on a divvy up of you in Mar and Spa, me in Bre and Por, and germany in Bel and Par? Just thinking long term about who gets what.
Thanks for that info about France. 

Also, Germany has confirmed to me that they trust you. I think you’re right that there will be no German stab coming this turn.
As far as that divide, that generally sounds fair. Though, I find that those kinds of agreed splits rarely come to pass exactly as proposed. I may have to turn around and go east if Austria stabs me, etc.
So I’d prefer to kind of focus on general principles: (1) I’d like for the dominant alliance on the board to be E/I. So while I agree we want Germany to help us crack this but, longer term I think we should plan to divide Germany’s share too. The safest divide in that case might leave me with all of Iberia, while you get most of Germany (I.e., you’re going to need armies).
(2) We should focus on parity. In other words, if I’m way ahead on centers when France folds, you get more of France. If it’s the opposite, I get more. We just keep checking in and try to balance both centers and growth opportunities, and let that guide us.
All of that makes sense. We’ll reevaluate as we go. I’d like the promise of Belgium and Paris to Germany to be a consistent one that comes from both of us, for the purpose of maintaining German confidence in our alliance. In case germany asks you.
Looks like you’ve got a bit of a guessing game on your hands.
Yep. Was hoping for a guarantee. 🤨
Germany and I were thinking to go with Spain. France is annoyed enough with me that he honestly may go for the channel. I’ll be risking the channel by supporting ruh to bel with nth. So you can support to spain and then let france into mar from bur instead of bouncing. Germany will try to sneak into bur from Mun, then you two could bounce in Mun to keep russia out. A little complicated, but germany in bur next year would be great for us.
Even if things don’t go our way this fall, france will go eventually. Though the longer france has to stay alive, the longer he’ll have to sweet-talk germany into turning on us
Trieste? What's up with that?
I guess it shows commitment to an English-Italian alliance, but I'm a little surprised to see a stab like that this soon.
Not a stab. Austria offered it to me for the sake of parity.
Hmmm, maybe I was supposed to keep that a secret? I think you need to give Austria some “thumbs down”
Can you please not go to Austria and tell him that I said the move to Trieste was arranged? He’s obviously trying to manipulate you in some way. Can we just compare notes and try to figure out what he’s up to without revealing that you and I talk much?
I'm not going to right now, but I also am a little curious why it would matter to you if I told Austria that. Are you telling Austria things like "I really want the Austria-Italy alliance to be the dominant one on the board"? What is your long-term plan with Austria?
No — I just want to know what he’s up to. It’s not a big deal to me, but I didn’t know he was going to try to pass that off as him getting stabbed, so I’m curious what he’ll tell you next. If you blow him up for lying to you, we won’t get that info, and he’ll know that you and I talk a lot.
In terms of what I am telling Austria, I am definitely close with him, and I want him to feel like I’m not going to stab him, but we’re almost to the mid game, and cross board alliances work a lot better than neighbor alliances once we get to the mid-game, so I think you can be confident that you’re the long-term ally I want.
That said, I’m definitely saying nice things to Austria too. I won’t deny that. Not the same nice things, but I can’t have Austria thinking I will attack him. That doesn’t help me and I don’t think it helps you.
All of that makes sense. I won't call out Austria. How do you plan to continue your attack on France this year?
I don’t know. Is there something you’d like me to do? I’m rather flexible. I’d just really like to bust through for a build this year.
Thoughts?
Would you like to support me to MAO?
Won't France just cut in Bre?
I'd actually like MAO next year.
I'd like to hear something about your plans before midnight
What do you need to know? I won’t move to MAO, I’ll try for Spain or Marseilles. Do you want to know more than that?
Have you been talking to France at all?
Nope. Not a word this phase.
Huh. I guess France is lying to me then?
Yes. I haven’t said a word to him. What’s he saying?
France is a snake.
Umm that you're the highest ranked online player in the world. And that you consistently encouraged him to attack me.
Well that’s fun. Um, where to begin? 

I think I’m a good online player. I’ve been playing online for about two years. I have a site ranking on one website in the Top 100, and I have a site ranking on another website in the top 250. So, maybe if you combine those rankings and squint, I’d be in the top 200 or so?
Also, I don’t know who France is. So, he either has me confused with someone, or else he’s just trying to scare you. Let’s see...why would he be trying to scare you?
And, I have definitely encouraged him to attack you, as I recall, but it’s been several game years since then. I feel like you’ve probably encouraged France to attack me before (a fairly natural thing for England to do).
Bottom line: France has every reason in the world to try to get us to distrust each other, and he’s obviously willing to say whatever to make that happen.
I think I’ve been really honest with you, and I think we’ve been helpful to each other, and I think we are both going to succeed in this game if we can stick together and not give in to his tricks.
Cause snakes are gunna snake.
🐍 🐍 🐍 🐍 🐍
All of this pretty much lines up with what I expected, though it’s nice to hear from you. He says that you’re “[redacted]” on playdiplomacy.com . So I guess the user name lining up is just a coincidence. Not that I really care that much btw, but it would be interesting if you were secretly a star player.
I’ve never played on playdiplomacy. I play mostly on an app called Conspiracy. 

But don’t get me wrong! I’m experienced, and I’ve had some success. I’m not to be trifled with!
Also, you should be able to see from my moves, and Austria’s, that I’ve been telling you the truth.
Yeah, that's fair. France is funny. I've gotten maybe 15 messages from France since I ghosted him. Is it rock, paper, or scissors against him this season?
From France: "I can stop Italy this turn by the way. It's pretty easy since Italy let me into Marseilles, I can support the hold in Marseilles and Marseilles can support MAO to Spain SC. It's impossible to breach, I've checked it, and I can keep making those orders for years and years. You stabbed me in Spring 03. It is Fall 05. I think that you, Italy, and Germany are highly underestimating my ability to survive against your onslaught. You sure this is the game you want? Slowly whittling away at me until I die? Instead, I propose that we let you into the Mid Atlantic Ocean and that you help me defend Italy. I can send you past the MAO into West Med, where you can start taking dots like Tunis or Naples. We wait until AI crumbles, and you have an excellent game where you top the board."
So I have my interpretation of the message, but I'm curious to hear yours
Hmmm, thanks for sending that. I mean, obviously the orders he proposes can be defeated by tapping Marseilles and supporting into Spain. He knows we know that. He’s just playing games and trying to throw us off.
Yeah. Maybe it's not even worth thinking about. It's like the Sicilian in princess bride
Exactly
I’m just going to flip a coin.
So I guess you won't go for MAO then?
Correct.
(also, there's a couple other points I'd like to cover while I have you here)
Ok that sounds good. I'm eyeing that for next spring.
Sure.
Well, I'm surprised you haven't been opinionated at all about my actions in Russia.
Hmmm, well, I do have opinions. I just don’t want to be overbearing.
What are you thinking over there?
The builds are tempting, but I don't want to be the one that hands austria the game
What are your opinions?
I'm going to bed. But other things I want to talk about are 1) the anti-English moves from Germany, 2) what you're doing with the Tyr unit.
Responding now.
You are thinking about the right considerations re Russia/Austria. Every build is enticing, but you have to consider the cost. Right now, Russia is basically using all of his units to help you. So, I think you might be better off foregoing that build and keeping Russia on your side for now.
But...I certainly have no horse in that fight.
If you want to attack Russia, no need to hold back on my account.
I do want you to grow so that you and I are the same size. And those Russian centers will be key to that. But they also aren’t going anywhere. I don’t think there is any rush, personally.
The Russian units are doing things you want them to do right now.
Re Germany, I hadn’t really noticed the anti-English moves. She keeps telling me that y’all are very close.
I feel pretty confident that she’s with you, and that she really wants to see France out of the game.
Re Tyrolia, what would you like me to do? I do have a plan with that unit. And if you wanted to deal a blow to Austria, I can think of at least one devious plan to make his turn go poorly.
All that makes sense and I believe it. I feel like your "horse" in the russian front is Austria's future strength, which could pose a threat to you. Your advice to me is consistent with that.
Yeah, that’s true. I just don’t want to be too nosy or high maintenance, really.
I could see you feeling like you need to get some builds promptly, and so you pick off a Russian unit or two. Even though that may make my situation tougher, I feel like your cooperation against France and later Germany means too much to me for me to try to dictate what you do with Russia.
I hope that makes sense.
But my advice about what you should do really is my opinion about the best way to approach it from your perspective. I don’t think you need to be in a hurry there. I think that just about every place on the board is moving in a positive direction for you right now, and so, if I were you, I would not want to shake that up.
But if you do want to do that, it’s very much okay with me.
Yeah I'm not going for Russia right now. Supposing he can hold the stalemate, he's literally just saving those territories for me to take at a later date. I will get a little annoyed if the admin cuts us off at 1910 though, as I think my endgame is a little past that.
The anti-english moves aren't strictly anti-english. But a fleet build in Berlin and then moving to Kie is a little aggressive.  Germany hoped I would just give up denmark this fall, and that was her explanation of the kie move. Eventually that Kie fleet will be going against me. A stab right now from germany doesn't seem to make much sense though.
It would have to be coordinated with france to even have a chance, and with the pressure you're putting in the south I don't know how France could afford that. Unless he's really pissed at me and goes for a kamikaze just to annoy me.
And what devious thing could you do with Tyr that wouldn't immediately begin aggressions with austria?
Ok now I'm really going to bed. But I can think of a Tyr move that would really stir up some trouble. I wonder if we're thinking of the same one.
Any chance you are around this morning?
What’s up?
I don’t want to tell Russia a way to deal Austria a blow because Russia will turn around and tell Austria. But I trust you, so I think I could pass on some info to you and you might not use it against me.
Gotcha. What are the moves you’re thinking?
You might say something like this to Russia:

I was chatting with Italy about Tyrolia, and he told me that he promised to use Tyrolia to help Austria. My best guess is that Tyrolia and Galicia will bounce in Vienna. If you just use Bohemia to support Tyrolia in, then Austria doesn’t get a build and you likely break up Italy and Austria.
Too devious? 🤭🤫
I'd considered this move as something that russia could do to free up Gal, but I think I thought Ser was a home center or something, so I didn't realize the build consequence.
I'd bet russia is already planning to do this, but I can make the suggestion
I did have a different move for Tyr in mind.
Oh yeah?
This is not a good idea, i should clarify. But it would be very dramatic if you successfully supported Boh to Mun
(also I have a feeling russia won't be online before noon unfortunately)
well, russia had the right idea, but didn't choose the right one to support. Bounce in Ank planned? And congrats on Mar
Yes, both bounces planned. Russia made a nice gamble taking Bulgaria.
Even with Austria in BLA now? I'll be a little annoyed if I see a build in St. P
Yeah, for sure. Austria loses that build and keeps Vienna vacant. Russia GETS a build. Yeah, I think that worked well for Russia.
We should start talking about the France endgame and what things look like post-war. Maybe after we see the French choice for a disband. I think France hates me the most (despite me having taken none of his territories) and as a result will probably hold onto Brest until the end, or maybe even go for LVP or something.
Sure — I’m happy to talk it through. That move by France to bounce NAO was annoying.
Yeah, I kinda saw that coming. So things are kinda escalating with germany. She’s making lots of asks that I don’t think are reasonable. Like “why not just give me denmark” and “why not just leave Nth open”. She’s also admitted to being friendly with France.
Yeah, I’m hearing rumblings of the same thing from Germany. Just sort of feeling me out on whether I’d be okay with her working with France. Not good.
How would you like to address it with moves this turn? Do you want me to support you to MAO? Or should I move there?
How has she suggested to you that she’ll be helping France? Because if she’s telling you that, it must mean working with france against me, maybe with something specific in mind. She also wants me to give up Brest haha. Maybe i’ll ask if she wants London
I don’t know anything specific. She’s just asking for my thoughts. I have not responded.
Though, I’m not surprised. France is not going to quit. He hasn’t been talking to me anymore and he hasn’t been trying to turn you. That means he’s been working on Germany. I think we just have to keep telling her that France is a Dark Wizard who does not have her best interest in mind.
Yeah, I mean good on France for being persistent. I'm sure France is telling her that we're allies. And that would actually be the truth. And just geographically it would be hard for me and germany to be allies longer-term, so it's somewhat understandable that Germany could be swayed by that logic.
What are your thoughts on the timing of war with Germany (if you're keen on a war in the near future at all)? I have an idea of how to handle the situation that's slightly dependent on that
Well, I don’t really want to attack Germany this year. In a perfect world, you and I each get a build this year, and we are in position to attack Germany next year.
Germany seems to like my advice, so I may be able to get her to take Paris this year and refrain from attacking you. If we can cripple France in the next two turns, without Germany attacking, then next year’s attack on Germany would be easy.
That is my general thinking in it.
I mean I don't see how I get a build this year outside of moving in on Russia, but I'd rather stay out for now. Honestly the worst that Germany can do this year is knock me out of the channel.
So I don't want support into MAO this turn. I might reach out to France with a proposition for survival that I won't follow through with. But maybe I can make it convincing enough that he gives it a shot. Otherwise I'm rather nervous that France gives Germany a big hand with attacking my island in his final years
Also, will an attack on Germany really be easy next year?
Also, did you tell germany i was plotting against her? She says you did.
Whoa — no, I want you and Germany to work together.
I would not and have not said you are plotting against her. She floated the “work with France thing,” and I suggested that she should really take Paris now while she can.
If we can get Germany to take Paris, next year will be much easier. I think we should both direct her there.
You really said nothing to that effect? What would prompt france to say that to me? It’s ok if you did say something, but i want you to be honest about it.
Some exciting moves. Will be curious to see where you stand.
Hey — sorry I’ve been offline since the bot went down. That looks like a pretty aggressive move from Germany. I wonder if France has pocketed her. I do like the move to Paris, but the rest is not good.
Yeahh. It’s a shame. I mean i’m aware at this point that the two of you could choose to mow over me. I hope the expanse in northern russia makes you wary of helping germany though.
Time for survival mode. Will appreciate some advice on tactics if you’re on my side of this.
Yeah, I’m on your side. I’ll help on tactics, but I think the real key here is getting Germany to flip back. I don’t see why that move has to be permanent. I think you should tell her something like this: “Look, I see that you are attacking you, but I think it’s my fault not yours. I should have given you back Denmark. I see that now. And I’m sorry. I will move out peaceably, and I hope we can work out a new working relationship.”
Just say you’re sorry. She can take it back anyway, might as well offer it back right?
(And I’m not saying you have anything to be sorry for, I’m just trying to brainstorm about what will help you turn her back to your side.)
I already responded non-angrily, though not specifically what you said. I think a return of denmark could go a long way. Though that border will make things tense, and i don’t think peace with her could last forever
One thing I'm curious about: Why would you want Germany and I to be friends? Aren't you better off with both of us fighting? And I can keep Denmark this fall if I give up the channel (which may fall anyways)
Well, I want to be rid of France. I’ve really been depending on the two of you to help in that project. If England decides to move out of Paris for France, that’s bad for me. 

Also, I don’t want to see Germany get two builds this turn. But you’re right, if it’s inevitable anyway, it’s not the end of the world. 

#teamengland
I sure hope you’ve not been clicking that thumbs down haha. It would be a brutal stab. I suppose i’ve got to place my trust somewhere though. Why choose me instead of germany?
You know, if you're able to lend a hand from MAO, I'm actually not in THAT bad of shape. Can I depend on that?
1) You’ve been straight with me all game. 2) You have a much better ability to read the board than she does. 3) You’re on the other side, so you can’t really stab me, but I could totally see her moving to Tyrolia some time soon. 4) You’re not in France’s pocket.
All good reasons. Also, I think Germany is gonna ghost me, soooo, friends? I need MAO to attack Bre. Can you do that?
I will ensure that Brest can’t hurt you. Not sure yet if I’ll cut that support or get France to do something weird with it, but you can consider that unit non functional this turn. I’ll also see what intel I can gain.
Cool. You really think you can get france to take your advice on Brest?
And do you have opinions about russia walking into Mun?
Re Brest: if I’m not confident, I’ll just cut that support. I know that one is important to you, and I’ll make sure it’s taken care of.
Re Munich: that one never really crossed my mind. But if you can get Russia to do that, it would be awesome. I don’t want to see Germany get builds here.
Cool. Any advice on the rest of tactics for my defense? I have my own ideas, but would be curious to hear your opinion
I’d probably just use the army to protect Liverpool. I’d send NAO to Norwegian if the battle is going to be against Germany. And I’d flip a coin between supporting Channel to Belgium or supporting Denmark holding.
And I wouldn’t tell anyone the result of that coin flip. There is just no reason to share that info.
Huh. That's way different than what I had in mind.
Well, you’re closer to it than I am. I’m sure you’ve taken a much harder look. What am I missing?
You're not missing anything, but I had a more defensive strategy in mind I guess. I've got some time to think it over. Please do let me know what intel you receive
Hi, I have a different ask of the MAO unit actually, if you're around this morning.
Hey — what’s up?
I want to see whether supporting channel to Bre is an option for MAO you'd consider. And I'd also want to know if Gas support will be cut.
Well, have to just be honest here — I’ve been working on a larger plan considering your earlier request that I neutralize Brest, and I’m not sure that change works in the larger scheme.
More broadly, is there any chance you’d like to form a trio and work with me and Russia long term?
Why wouldn't you let me in on your larger plan?
And does your larger plan include neutralizing Brest, or did it just consider that I asked that? Can you confirm you're neutralizing Brest by attacking it from MAO?
Yes, hitting Brest. 

I prefer not to share my moves if they don’t matter to someone else. There is just less chance that something goes wrong, and less chance I end up blaming someone else if something goes wrong.
What do you think about E/I/R as a trio?
I think you need to justify to me why supporting into Brest isn't an option. I don't see how this could be relevant to some larger plan. Unless the plan is "don't give England that build, don't show others that I'm supporting England"
Wow. Well, you asked me to do something else earlier, and I have spent days trying to fit your earlier request into my move set.
But, you know what, it’s more important to me to have you as an ally. So I’ll support you to Brest.
I obviously would like that. But to be honest I care less about the support and more about the secret.
So, confirmed, MAO supporting Channel to Brest.
Test.
It’s not a secret. It’s just that I like to keep my moves secret unless they matter to someone.
Can you confirm whether support from Gas is cut as well?
I am not currently cutting support in Gascony.
Ok. And I'm down to chat about russian relations after the move. Sorry for the last-minute change here. But germany's been putting pressure on me
Have to say — I expect Germany to use Paris to support Brest. Those two seem to be in lockstep now.
Are you sure that I should just take Portugal to drop England down to 1 unit?
I mean drop France down to 1 unit.
France is just going to bounce you out, right? What else does it make sense for the Spa unit to do?
He thinks I am supporting an attack on Spain and moving to Burgundy, so I think his moves look like this:

Spain hold
Gas S Spa holding
Paris S Brest
Brest S MAO - Channel (he asked me to take it)
Irish - Liv
Hmm, yeah I would have thought he would assume the Gas support would be cut. Does France really hate you the least?
Yeah, I think France trusts that I’m actually going to Channel and Burgundy here.
I will admit I've communicated with Germany about your plan to use MAO to help me. That may have made its way back to France
I feel like you, Germany, and France: if I tell anyone anything, it circulates to all three.
Yeahh. I maybe should keep my mouth shut more often.
Germany says that the Brest thing relates to Denmark. 

Anyway, what should we do?
It does. I'm giving up denmark for support to Brest.
Okay, I’ll support you to Brest.
Sounds great
Thanks
Glad to see that go through.
Told you about the move to Por btw
You were right. Thank you.
Well I'm glad to see the takedown work out. I suppose France has one more unit, but Por will fall next year. And now things get even more interesting. Signing off for now.
Hmmm, interesting French disband. He wants me to support him to Brest. Have to believe he’s going to have Germany on his side given the German fleet build. 

Thoughts on how to approach this? We should be able to defeat them if we stick together.
I think we should focus on getting your army to Pic this turn, and I can support you to Paris in the Fall.
DO NOT DISCUSS PLANS WITH GERMANY THIS TURN. Seems very clear that she’s coming for you based on the build and the French disband. I don’t think we help ourselves by speaking with her. Let’s just get you into Paris, secure North Sea, and get moving.
I don’t need any builds in the North. If I get bigger, I’ll have a target on my back. So I’m just going to help you get up to my level.
Also, I need to decide to work with Russia or Austria in the East. What’s your preference?
I'll be in communication with Germany, but I'll agree to not share any specific plans discussed between the two of us this turn. Is that fair?
Yes of course. I don’t mean that you shouldn’t talk to her at all.
At first glance, I prefer an alliance with Russia, though I understand this means you breaking a relationship with Austria. Mostly this is because Russia can threaten me if he ever goes north. What's your preference?
Well, that’s fine with me. I like Russia. But here is the downside for you: if Russia grows, the north won’t be undefended any more, and you will have less room to grow. So, think long term, and think about where your dots are going to come from. I mean it sincerely when I say that I’ll join up with either one provided you feel good about it, but I actually think it might be better for you if I give back Austria a couple of centers and position you to grab Swe and STP once Germany is on her heels.
Those are good points. I suppose you'd like to commit to this before moves this evening?
*commit one way or the other
Yeah, I think we should make a plan.
I’d like to have your final thoughts on A/R as quickly as possible so that I have time to execute a plan. But I understand if you want time to think about it.
How is Germany treating you right now? Did she tell you about that fleet build before it happened? Seems like a bad sign, and North Sea is awfully exposed.
Oh she told me that she plans to line the whole northwest coast with fleets because "they're more versatile there". But all they can do from the northwest coast is invade me.
She also said she wants Brest eventually.
Not sure if I can keep Nth this year. We'll see if I can keep it friendly. That involves lots of talk about moving against you. She wants to see me in MAO.
Yeah, look, I don’t mind if you tell her that you’re moving against me. I am telling her that I’m moving against you. 

Let’s please make the following deal: You and I both plot with Germany as if we’re attacking each other. And we both share the plan with Germany against the other guy with each other, and we pledge to tell Germany (and France if he asks) that you and I are not talking much, we don’t trust each other, and we don’t have any plan in place.
This turn will work best if we share all info that we learn from G/F, and we pledge to keep our own talks secret.
I think that we can pull off a great turn, but it won’t work if G/F get catch wind of our alliance.
All that makes sense. I'm on board. You know, if Germany just stopped surprising me with aggressive moves, she may have won my favor. [sigh]
And I think Austria is the ally we choose. If we hold off Germany, she can only expand into Russia, which would be her only friend. And the trusting relationship you have makes it more likely that things will go through.
👌
So, here is the plan that Germany is telling me:

She wants to ensure she gets North Sea. So she is asking for this:

Den S Bel - North
Bel - North
Hol - Bel
Pic - Channel
Spa - Gas
Par S Sap - Gas
MAO - Irish
She wanted me to support her direct from Paris to Brest, but I convinced her that you would likely fear a forced disband, so you were likely to try to keep me out of Gascony (thus Par S Spa - Gas).
I don’t think we can save North Sea this turn, but if we can land your army in Pic, we can force France to retreat to Belgium, which would be absolutely awesome. And I think his survival instinct would kick in at that point, and he would stay there until you take it.
I may be able to save Nth with some diplomacy. Is it worth me trying to make Germany a hard case to be on my side? Does that just make her moves less predictable?
So I would suggest this:
Bre S Wal - Pic
Wal - Pic
Channel Convoy Wal - Pic

That means Germany will lose Paris and Belgium this year. And I think you can defend your territory even with G in North Sea.
I really think that we are best off not suggesting that you and I are talking. If Germany gets any idea that I shared her plans with you, we’ll have no idea what they are going to do.
Uhh, Germany will just hop into one of my home centers from Nth in the fall...
I trust you at this point, but I don’t think that confronting her is the best move here.
No, you can defend.
Oh move  to Cly?
Oh wait Nth just  retreats. whoops
You can move NAO to Norwegian in Spring, and retreat North to Norway. Then in Fall you cover London with Channel while I support you to Paris.
Right.
So you have coverage for every center, and you get the build, while G loses two.
Thoughts on a retreat to Hel?
That’s the best I can come up with if G is being honest with me.
I would not be opposed to a retreat to Hel, but  it depends a lot on what the board looks like. I’m not crazy about Germany taking Norway. We want her taking units off the board.
Well I'll at least communicate with Germany to the point that she thinks I'm genuinely against you. But I won't ask for any favors.
If I do I'll let you know, and we should expect that you hear about them.
Agreed. Yes, I’m totally fine with that. We want G thinking that we’re working against each other.
And, frankly, she’s going to be pissed at me after this move, so I wouldn’t mind if you lied to her too at the same time to spread that out a bit.
So plot away against me, but tell me what plan you guys work out, so we can talk about what she’s most likely to do.
France wants me to go for MAO. I'm going to say I'm on board with that. I'll say NAO is going there.
I mean germany
Yep. That makes sense. She wants Edi and Norway clear.
Also, does it matter so much if Germany is mad at both of us? Isn't it basically war in the Fall?
If I were you, I’d order NAO to Norwegian. From Norwegian, you have a play to defend Norway AND Edi. Which means you could retreat to Helg if you like and you have a 50/50 to defend Norway or Edi.
Yeah that's what I'll order
Re G being mad: it’s not the end of the world. I mean, we’ll definitely be at war with her. I just don’t want her trying to throw the game in spite or anything like that. Cause I am lying to her like crazy this turn. 🤭🤫
yeahh... it happens. i've been fortunate to not really have to lie so far.
What are your thoughts on Mun?
Also, just out of curiosity, did you advise Germany to build the Kiel fleet?
I absolutely did not advise G to build the F Kie.
We did not talk at all about that build.
Thoughts on Mun? What do you mean?
If G would have asked, I would have said that two armies would make me a bit uncomfortable, but I would not have insisted on a fleet, as two armies would have been more anti-Russian than anything. But she did not ask me.
I believe you. I just was curious. And I didn't look closely enough at Mun. Ber can just support. But I thought it might be interesting to work with Russia there, even if Russia isn't the long-term ally.
Also, who does germany think the third ally is?
I ask because we may be interested to know whether Germany will try to sneak into Swe or not.
Well, I’m not next to Munich now, so there isn’t much I can do about that. Maybe in the Fall.
Germany and I have not discussed a third ally. She doesn’t give the impression that she cares much about the east.
I guess the question in spring is whether you move to Tyr. And would we want her moving into Russia? If she goes east and annoys her future only friend on the board, this might complicate their future relations.
Well, that’s a great idea. I am all for her moving on Russia if you can accomplish that. I’m certainly willing to go to Tyrolia.
Alright. I'll plant the seed about anti-russia stuff. If she thinks you're a friend, though, she may listen to you more than me.
FYI, she just asked me if I am talking with you. I told her: “I am wary of England right now. He just asked me what I want to do this turn. I feel like he’s trying to get me to leave MAO open.”
Cool. consistent with my messaging. I'm talking about a plan to leave Bre open and get her support to Gas so I can support into Spa. I'm asking for her to promise Bre to France and then bounce in Bre instead.
Then I'd dislodge in MAO and you'd retreat to IRI. We'll see what she thinks. I imagine she's just playing along, But I need to make specific plans to be believable
💯
Looks like germany is staying friendly with russia. Can we go over moves one more time so i can be sure we’re on the same page?
Here is what I have down right now:
MAO S Brest
WES S MAO
LYO - TYR S
Spa - Gas
Pie - Mar
Ven - Tyr
Nap - ION
Cool. All expected. Right now I'm:
NAO to NWG
NTH hold
Wal to Pic
Channel convoy wal to pic
Bre support Wal to Pic
I like it. 

As I think about it more, you may be better off moving North to Holland, expecting a bounce there. I think you’re slightly better off keeping the German fleet in Kiel, as it’s one less German unit in North Sea, but it’s not a huge difference either way.
That's good advice. I'll take it
I’m kind of excited about this turn.
A stab is always exciting
I’m sorry mate. You’ve been a terrific ally. First class all the way. But on this turn, Germany made the kind of offer I could not refuse, and so I went for it.
I know that doesn’t make it any easier, but I really mean it when I say that you’ve played a strong game, and been an excellent ally.
No worries, nicely played on your end. I think I can top Germany’s offer if you’re interested. Let me know!
Hmmmm...I’m intrigued. Aren’t you supposed to be screaming obscenities at me right now?This response is downright classy and sportsmanlike.
Haha yeah I suppose. But this game for me is about learning. I’m relatively new to the game, and I volunteered for the study 1) to help out my friend, and 2) to prep for an in-person game I have on August 11. So if I get the right experience from this game and do well in the in-person game (i.e. win bragging rights among my friends), I’ve won MY game. Here is my offer: You bring me along to second place, I vow to help you solo as Italy, and you teach me how you pulled it off. What do you say?
Well that is a better offer than Germany’s. One of the best offers I’ve ever received. And I really mean it when I say that you’re a joy to play with and a strong ally. I’d be happy to teach you as much as I can.
I suggest you retreat to Skagerrak to put maximum pressure on Germany.
Well i’m happy to learn if you’re willing to teach. Do we have a deal then? This is obviously something you’ll have to trust me with. But I haven’t lied tp you yet and don’t intend to. And i imagine you can tactically keep me in a position where i’m not a threat. Also, on the teaching side of things I may have some questions about earlier in the game to learn how you set things up (and I would expect genuine answers!)
And yeah, that retreat makes sense. You think norway and the home island are too defensive?
I’ll answer anything you ask honestly.
You have more options from Skag, and she can’t cover them all. You have a much higher upside from there, and it might be worth it for you to take Sweden to avoid having to disband.
Regarding your offer: it may be hard to put you in second place, frankly. If your units are doing things that help me, then I’ll try to keep your units on the board, and I definitely won’t allow you to be eliminated, but it’s really hard for me to ensure that you place second.
I can settle for survival. Deal.
Your reasoning on Skag makes sense. Going to bed now. First question on strategy is: how frequently dp you tell lies, and what are the typical circumstances?
Hmmm, well, you know, we’ll have statistics to help answer that question at the end of the game. I’d say that I am mostly honest, and I place a lot of value on my credibility. I’m not going to lie about my moves to someone unless I am going to get a huge advantage out of it. But I spend most of the game trying to make everyone else on the board feel that I’m their closest ally, so a lot of what I say is a shade on the truth.
So, I found it hard to decide whether to use a thumbs up or thumbs down quite a lot. Most of the time, there is some truth in what I’m saying, but I am trying to persuade the other player to do something for reasons I am not telling them.
So, in general, I’m not afraid to lie, but I am very afraid of getting caught lying. I try to preserve my credibility as best I can, but if I am setting up a stab, I will tell some serious whoppers.
Also, that thing France said about my past successes: that was true. I do have a lot of experience and I have had a fair amount of success playing online diplomacy. I just did not want you thinking of me that way.
I’ll also note, just cause I have nobody else to talk with about this: I worked REALLY hard on this last move. Germany wanted to take Brest, but if that happened, it would have cut support and prevented your army from leaving your island. So I had to convince Germany to support France to Brest, without telling her the real reason why. And I needed you to go to NAO so that you could not guard Liverpool. There were so many lies!🤞😱
And that doesn’t even include the East!
To be completely honest, I directed just about everyone else’s moves on that turn! Russia is the one exception, but I basically knew what he was going to do. The best advice I have for someone who wants to get better at Diplomacy: just work hard. You can win by putting in more time and effort than everyone else. I have success by writing a lot to everyone all the time.
Yeah that’s one thing about online diplomacy I have mixed feelings about. It seems like there’s definitely a benefit from putting a lot of time in. I feel like I’ve been putting a lot of time in as it is, but there’s been the temptation to put in more. For in-person everybody gets the same amount of time to chat, which can be an equalizer in some ways.
I had considered what a stab from you might look like before it happened, and I was like “is he really going to all that trouble” but I suppose you were. Care to share why you chose Germany and how early you made that choice? What was the “offer”?
And that’s cool that i’m playing with a champ!
Hi England — so I see that you retreated to Norway. Not what I expected, but it can work. Would you still like to work with me?
Yeah i know we didn’t chat about this. It was a little last minute, and you hadn’t responded in the morning so I didn’t think you were around (also I thought Ska was more a suggestion). I should have given you a heads up. My thinking was 1) it’s going to Sweden anyways, 2) i thought it might help warm relations with germany. Was this a bad call?
I would still like to work with you
Not a big deal at all.
I suggest that you take Sweden, and I’m working on getting Belgium this turn too. It’ll be tricky to keep Germany from defending it, but I’m going to try.
Pic to Bel?
And you were a bit shy about the earlier learning question. I guess it may be something sensitive to give an honest answer to at this time. One other question I have is whether there's a mistake you've seen in my play that you think I could have done differently. Like choosing to cold-shoulder France or choosing not to sneak into Sweden earlier.
Also, France is asking about our relations after the stab. What would you like me to say?
Something about how awful I am and how much you want revenge?🤭
Haha alright. I’ll keep you “aBrest” of how France will move that fleet (should he choose to share)
Okay, I think we have a good move brewing!
If you’re sincerely on board, this will be fun!
France is ordering Brest to Channel. 
Germany is ordering Burg S Bel and convoying Holland to Yorkshire....!
So here is the move:
Norway - Swe
Pic S Channel - Belgium
Mar - Bur to cut support
Gas to Bre to block the Paris move. 

I think you’re going to get a build this turn even if I take Liverpool. 

Does that make sense?
Yeah I'm on board, though I will remind you that you're forgetting an important part of the bargain. So I guess NWG to Edi (which is probably safe in case she goes for the build instead) and then plan to build in London?
What part of the bargain am I forgetting? It’s unintentional. I’m trying to be helpful!
You overlooked a couple of my questions.
I'm sure you've been busy setting up that move, so it's no big deal, just wanted to remind you
Sorry.
You asked a question about what Germany offered me. Do you mind if I answer that after this move? I’d just like to see for sure that you’re sincere in working with me after I so rudely stabbed you.
Yeah that one's fair to skip for now I think.
Germany is now fishing for info from me about our relationship. Does she know that we are still talking? I’d like to tell her that you’re mad at me and you will tell me nothing, but we must keep our stories straight.
No, but I'd bet she'd assume it. We didn't have much to say to each other this morning. I tried to be friendly but she was kinda straight up about saying that an alliance wasn't going to work out. And I sent a message back but haven't heard anything. So I'd imagine she'd think I'm not just sitting here twiddling my thumbs. Up to you how to spin it though.
Thank you. 👌
I'm going to be hit or miss with connectivity this evening, so I'm putting moves in now. Will look just before the adjudication though. But I'm trying to get some work done. So right now I'm: Eng to Bel, Pic support Eng to Bel, Nwy to Swe, and NWG to Edi.
👍
I’ll let you know if anything changes on my end.
Cool, sounds good
Hmmm, Germany is backing off the bait. I think we will have to change our plan.
What's up?
Not sure yet, but she is not going to leave Belgium unguarded so that won’t work.
Alright, keep me posted.
She is pressing hard now for info from me on your moves. I am telling her that you are jovial with me, but that we have not discussed any substance.
👍
France is offering to move in a way that would help against you. Does it matter what I say?
I don’t think it matters. I believe he is lying to you.
Okay. Cause you had said he’d be going to the channel before. Is that still true? And any update on belgium?
Working on it. I’ll have an update in an hour.
Ok. I’ll be asleep probably, but i’ll see in the morning.
So, it sounds to me like Germany thinks you are coming for her and she will not leave Belgium unguarded. 

I think your best bet will be the following:
Picardy - Brest (expect a bounce)
Channel - London (expect that The French fleet will move to the Channel, which will mean you don’t lose Brest, 
Norwegian to Edi (just in case)
Norway to Sweden

I was hoping for a better move involving taking Belgium, but I just don’t think I can swing it. 

Thoughts? What are you hearing now from France and Germany?
Long one from Germany. Talking up your evils, talking collaboration with France. Suggested moves are NWG to Cly, holland to york, eng goes to iri or wales, belgium supports brest to channel. Pic to bre, par to pic, bur to par, mun to bur.
Haven’t responded yet. Will have a somewhat busy morning, so i’ll appreciate your guidance if you think this changes anything
Thank you. Just woke up. Thinking about this. Any ideas?
Seems like she’s going to try to take Brest for herself.
I think you tell her “yes,” but then order Pic to Bre and Channel to London. That way France moves out of Brest, and you bounce Germany in Brest and keep it.
And I’d stick with NWG to Edi and Norway to Sweden.
And by the way: Thank you very much for filling me in. Makes me feel really confident that you’re with me.
Yeah, happy to help. Just got online now. Let me take a moment to process all of this.
Ok,first question: You're saying she's going for Bre on her own, but she's suggesting Pic to Bre. Maybe she's hoping for you to support Paris in?
Hmmm, no, she does not expect my support. But I’m surprised she’s screwing over France.
Well, do you think she's being honest with me?
It’s really hard for me to say. I know she is eager for her own builds, so my best guess is that she’s being partially honest with you and that she is going to grab London or Edi if she feels confident you are not going to cover.
Yeah, the suggestion of going to Cly is consistent with that. And that the channel moves away from london
I think your suggestion makes sense. Covering Edi and London is safe, and Germany seems a bit unpredictable. And I keep fingers crossed that France indeed will vacate Brest
And, since you haven't been specific on your plan for Lvp, I can only assume that you'll be moving there.
I am planning to move to Liverpool. I’m sorry that costs you a unit. But the way this is going, it may very well be the last center I take from you, and I think it’s much more likely now that you take second place.
Ok gotcha. Hmm I just realized that I really have to hope for a bounce in Edi or London. Because If I get Bre and Swe, I would get a build even with you in Lvp, but then I wouldn't have an open home supply center to build at
Well, you’re right about that. Perhaps ask Germany to bounce with you in Edi?
Though, I don’t think you’ll be getting a build now because you’re unlikely to get Belgium. But...if you think Germany is really convoying to Yorkshire, I’m willing to order Marseilles to Burgundy to cut support while you support Channel to Belgium.
If I get Bre and Swe, but you get Lvp, I'm still net up by one (it will be rebuilding the disbanded fleet that was in Bre).
Brest is already English.
Yeah. But I get the unit back is all I mean. I'm down to 4 now.
I have 5 centers and 4 units now. Add Swe, hold Bre, take away Lvp, and I've got another unit to put on the board
But only if I have a free home supply center
Ah, you’re totally right. My mistake.
This is getting tricky.
Haha yeah. Given your comms with France, would it make sense that she's being genuine with me?
It’s possible. But I just don’t know.
I’d be really surprised if she wanted to cut out France at this point.
Yeah, I think I have to play defensive then. I actually think aggression from her is more likely. I would be surprised if neither london or edi bounce. I'll say I agree to her proposal though.
Okay, I think that’s the right move. This is the first turn in a while that is fairly unpredictable from my point of view. It would be really great if you wind up with a build.
Well played.
So do I get ghosted now after you duped me?
If your strategy is not to talk to me again, I’d appreciate if you would at least let me know that, as a courtesy. Just trying to play a board game here.
Hey, no not going to be a dick. I have agreed to not talk to you.
Okay. I think that is a bad choice in any game of Diplomacy (and likely in any game in general), and it only helps other people. But I’ll respect your choice if that is how you want to play. 

If you do ever decide you want to talk, my door will always be open, no matter what. And I am willing to keep all communications secret, if that’s the issue.
Love is a game. And it’s wise to stay away from your ex if the relationship was toxic
I mean...you encouraged me to go for the solo, and then pulled the rug out from under me. I see why you did what you did. But...I’m not going to solo now. Eventually the incentives will change. I never close a door because things change turn to turn. Closing our door is only good for Germany. So...it makes sense that she made you promise to close it.
Ok there’s something I want to share on the consition that this and future communications are just between the two of us. Think you can do that?
Absolutely. The moment I try to share something with Germany, she would say it to you, so you can be sure I’ll keep anything confidential.
Welll there’s a bit of an out of game thing affecting my play on some matters. And I kind of want to leave this vague since this will be in a dataset and whatever. But after the stab i thought the least i could do was make you aware.
What is the out of game thing?
I have a neighbor who I'd really rather not brutally backstab, and it's not you (clearly). Does that make sense?
Sure.
So what will you do if you won't solo?
Well, the solo is clearly off the table. Without your help I never would have made that play in the east. I am outnumbered there and I will slowly melt away.
So, I will lose some centers and try to find someone who wants to work with me.
Well, it sounds like you mean the solo right now. You don’t think an eventual solo is off the table for you, right?
Eh, anything can happen, but I’m not really motivated to do that at this point. I’d accept a draw right now if everyone was on board.
You know, I might be in the same boat there. This game has invaded my life enough as it is. I think I prefer in-person. It's a long day, but when it's done it's done. Although you don't really get the fresh start you do with online (things like "i remember what you did to me last time" come up when playing with friends)
My five-way draw vote is up. If you can rally the troops, we can get to the interesting stats!
I mean isn’t this getting called off in 1910 anyways? That’s when the study ends. And how does the draw vote work? Do people see what you voted if it doesn’t go through?
Do your other moves not go through if you propose a draw?
I’m not sure how the draw vote works on Backstabbr. I don’t know if it’s visible. But I believe you just have to go down to the scroll bar at the bottom that says “Solo Victory” and scroll down to “five-way draw.”
Well, I’ll see what I can do then. The alternative is that we just duke it out for another couple of years until admin calls it.
Austria sounds game for a draw.
Haha no surprise there. Just reached out to russia. Germany is sworn to fight against you till the end (though a stab against me is inevitable too). But maybe we can convince if all others are on board
Russia on board. Germany is the last holdout. Doesn't believe we'll draw, or maybe doesn't want to. I'd really also like to get people to mark "Adjudicate once all powers have issued orders" as well, just to get it over with.
I don’t really know what Germany’s problem is. I helped her a ton in this game. It’s weird to me that she has such a vendetta.
I guess it makes sense for her from a strategic standpoint to make me out to be a boogie man to get everyone headed this way.
Well I did expose some of your double-dealing to her, which might have helped. But yeah, agreed that it's in her interest to get everyone against you, and then stab me when convenient.
Sent to Germany, England, Austria, Russia: So, England, Germany, Russia, y’all played a great turn last turn. You got me to stab my long-time ally and you ended our pretty excellent 7-year run as an alliance. Russia told me he was with me if I stab Austria. England told me he wanted me to solo so long as I would “teach him” and help his along to second place. Then y’all pulled the rug out from under me. It was clever and effective. (End Part 1)
(Part 2)
At this stage, my excitement about the game has diminished quite a bit. And of course I’m happy to play on and take my lumps for falling for “Hey, I really want you to solo, just help me place second,” but if you guys just want to call it a five-way draw among us and grab a beer together, while reviewing the statistics, that’s really my preference. 

I am outnumbered and I obviously can’t solo. And I’m sure some of you in the north are eager to send everyone else flying my way, but I expect Russia and England to be careful, and so I’m not sure there is much room to move forward without simply tipping the board to Germany’s favor. 

I propose that we draw and hug it out.🤗
Reply all to Italy's message: First, if you didn't get a message from Italy claiming to have been sent to the whole board, please let me know. I'm down for the draw that he has proposed. I'd also like to add that I'll be checking the "Adjudicate once all powers have issued orders" box. If everyone does this maybe we don't have to wait until Sunday night to have this resolved! I'm not so confident as to issue a hold for all of my units, but will be submitting for the 5-way draw. Really enjoyed playing with you all, but I'm exhausted and ready to finish and see the stats.
Zzzzzzzzzzz
Any idea who didn’t want to draw?
I have a guess, but no idea. I have heard from nobody.
Huh. I was thinking it’s possible the game was set up in some way to not respect the draw order? I don’t know that much about the site and how the admin chose to configure the game
Oh, that could be. Maybe it has to run to 1910?
It’s not you, is it?
I feel like it's gotta be you holding out on the draw. Well, good luck getting to 18 by the end of next year.
Hey. Good game. I think folks are pretty much done. I know i’m ready to move on. The draw proposal combined with the impending end of the game was effective in making us slack on our moves a bit (e.g., russia skipped a build this year). I don’t know that i can say whether you have a clear path to a solo if we were to continue. I know germany and I could at least get MAO next year, which would put pressure on Por and Spa. I think we’d all appreciate a draw though. Otherwise it will be “italy kind of won but kind of didn’t because the game got cut short”. Up to you though.
Hello Italy what’s up what are your thoughts on austria and France?
Hi Turkey! I’m sorry that I’ve been so slow to get in touch. Kind of a rough day for me to begin a game as I e been pretty swamped. Things are clearing up now, and I appreciate you reaching out to me. 

So far I have notes from Austria and Russia being pretty cagey and non-committal. Perhaps that is just the life of Italy? Nobody really has me in their plans?

I don’t really know what I’m going to do yet, so if you have ideas, or you have a use for me, please let me know. I’d basically be delighted to work with anyone who really wants to work with me. (No sign yet that this includes anyone at all)
Hey Turkey — any interest in working together? I’m trying to think of ideas, but I’d just like to know first if you have interest, and then we can work out a plan if you do.
Any thoughts, Turkey?
Sure we can work together austria would be the most likely candidate for us to maul
Well, here is a thought: any chance you would support my army to Greece?

If you’d like to work together against Austria, I think a great move would be to ask Austria to support you to Rum, and then support my army to Greece instead. 

If you are game to do that, I’d be happy to take down Austria with you and work with you moving forward. 

Thoughts?
I will support you to Greece 🇬🇷
I see what you are saying about rum I’m just not sure about lying in a game about lying or not
Let me think on it but yes to get that to work he has to not support to Greece 🇬🇷
I think we can lull him into a sense of calm. I really do. And I think that he will tell one of us the truth, so if you propose it, he will mention it to me and we will know whether he is being honest.
He said yes very quickly ...
Hi Turkey — just FYI, I think I’m better off just grabbing the easy build in Tunis this turn, so no need to support me to Greece just yet. Perhaps we can move on Austria next year?
I hope you’ve had a great weekend. Just so you know, I’m secretly hoping you build A Smyrna, F Constantinople. 🤞 🤞
I certainly like that build. Thoughts on how we can work together here?
Hmm I think austria is moving to Tyrol and coming after you
Not sure but he’s got a lot of units and he does lie
Hi Turkey,

I am facing a critical decision point here. I’d really like to make a deal with you. 

I’ve just learned that Austria/Russia have a deal in place to attack you. Austria has promised Russia Bulgaria in exchange for Russia’s help against you. It’s pretty clear to me that I am Austria’s second choice for an ally, and I don’t want to help A/R take you down just to be their next snack.
The current A/R plan is for Austria to double support Russia to Bulgaria. Moscow is headed up to STP with Sev supporting UKR to BUL. I am supposed to make a surprise move towards France. 

A/R expects you to cover Smyrna and does not expect you to attack Sev given all the units surrounding you.
We have a terrific counter, if you’d like to work with me. 

I can tap Greece and Aegean, which should allow you to save Bulgaria (Const S Bulgaria holding). At the same time, Black Sea Support Armenia to Sevastopol WILL WORK! I’m planning to move over to Trieste, so the end result of all this would be Turkey regaining Sev and remaining at 5 while I take Trieste and get to 5. From there, I think we should be able to work together to finish off Austria.
I know that’s a lot to take in. I’m sorry to kind of dump all of this on you, but I just learned basically that Austria is prioritizing Russia’s growth over mine, and I can see the writing on the wall. I’d very much like to turn the tables on him. Can we do this?
Come talk with me!!!
I’m still hoping to work this out with you. Please drop me a line when you have a free moment.
Hey man, I’m hoping that you’re still there and that you got my messages. I’d really like to speak with you.
I’m getting the impression that you just want to fight with me, and you don’t care what I have to say. If that’s the case, fine. But I do believe there is room for us to work together, so if you’d like to discuss that, drop me a line.
So turns out if you don’t say truth or lie it doesn’t send mail ...
Ha! Yeah, I’ve had that problem too!
So, is it worth us having a discussion this turn? I sincerely wanted to work something out with you last turn, but I took silence to be an ominous sign.
I wasn’t silent
I just didn’t realize no emails went through
Tough break friend.
No worries it’s diplomacy
Hello! Thoughts on how you like to play as Italy?
Hi France!

Well, I generally don’t like to play as Italy at all, frankly. But when I do, I go east. Not sure whether I’ll head towards Turkey or Austria, but I think the one big advantage that you and I both have is that we have a mutual border that is easy to keep clear. 

I’m not moving west. It takes forever to get there, and there are rarely centers there for me when I arrive. I hope you feel the same way about moving towards me. 

I’d like to keep our border clear and I’d like to act as “trio wires” for each other. Basically, if either Germany or England want to attack you, I expect they’ll mention something to me, and if you’ll look out for me diplomatically, I’ll give you a head’s up if ever you need to worry. 

How do you like to play France?
I'm happy to hear that! I have the same opinion when it comes down to our relationship. I prefer to play France decisevely in the West when an opportunity presents itself. Since that opportunity might not present itself for a long time, I often times end up playing a bit more reactively.

I'd love to be trio wires. I've heard from everyone in the east, but not much substance, which probably means a bunch of passive openings.  If there's little fighting between the Eastern powers it might make it tougher for us, so hopefully things will shake up a bit in that department. If you are also finding that there isn't a whole lot of commitment going on there, and you have some interest in an unorthodox play, then maybe there is some potential for us to work together directly.
Yeah, everyone is cagey and conservative, at least in words. If you have thoughts on something unorthodox, I love that kind of plan, so I’d love to hear it.
Ha — I meant “trip wire” above. That should make more sense.
But I appreciate that you also agreed to be “trio wires.” 🤣
That is funny, I was thinking that trio referred to the 3 Western/Eastern countries 😂 . In terms of unorthodox plans, I was thinking that if you moved to Tyrolia and Venice it would appear to be an attack on Austria, but that we could then perform a joint attack on Munich instead. I'm not sure if you actually want Munich or to get embroiled in Germany, but I thought I'd throw it out there.
Heads up: England is sniffing around. Wants to know if I’d be in to move to Piedmont if he takes the Channel.
Thanks for the heads up!
Nothing from Germany suggesting he’s in on it. I think that guy is going to be conservative.
That is really good to know- I wish I had more information on the East to share, but unfortunately I haven't gotten anything back yet.
Hoping we can help each other out this way all game.
I hope so too!
Just from the way the pieces moved, it's looking pretty good for you! What's your read on things?
Oh...I don’t know. Looks like I may be destined to become one of those forever-stuck-on-four Italys that flounders about for a while and then dies. 😔

Germany seems very passive. You seem aggressive, and pointed away from me, which warms my heart. 

What are your thoughts on the board?
True. Us staying out of each-others way is what allowed me to be a bit more aggressive, so thank you for that 🙂. It looks like Russia and Turkey are squabbling, which is probably great for Austria who started off very strong. I agree that Germany is a bit passive, and now does not have the option to prevent Russia from taking sweden. It's tough to read England. You may have some opportunities if everyone is on board with the Lepanto, and could possibly convince Austria to give you a center
I am only using my downward thumb for Germany so far. He keeps telling me transparent lies about you. Lol. 

Let’s please never fight. The bad guys are going to try to make us fight. Let’s just not.
Thanks for the heads up. I agree completely. As a side note, do you have a read on England by any chance? I want to work with him at this point, but he seems to be on the fence about it.
I haven’t really heard much from him. I think I disappointed him when I said “no thanks” on Piedmont. Let me reach out to him now and see if I can get a read.
I have been presuming that I don’t need to say “A fleet in Marseilles would make my skin crawl,” but maybe I should say it?
In this case, my hand was forced and I had to build armies. I don't anticipate building a fleet in Marseilles (in fact, that turn right there may have been my last build phase ever) but if that changes then I will certainly give you heads up!
Have you and Austria thought about ways to slow down England/Germany in case they decide to alliance and pick  up Scandinavia and French dots? I would be fully supportive of an attack on Munich.
I think we have a lot to do in the east before we make that kind of move. Any chance you can get England on your side?
True. The east is looking very nice for you and Austria :). I'm working on it but it is tough, and I am of course worried about the fleet London build and Germany building 2 armies. If England is no longer asking you to attack me then that would be a good sign.
Well, I’m just a four-center Italy. Let’s not get too excited yet. 

I haven’t heard a thing from England in quite a while. No idea what he’s thinking.
Hey- just thought I'd contact you and offer you some centers 😂 😂
I wanted to tell you sooner, but the bot was down.
You just got two thumbs down!
Good luck this turn.
Should we talk builds? I’d like to avoid F Mar.
Sure. I won't build a fleet in Mar.
I'm sure you have plans in the near term already set. Have you put any thought into how you would like the mid game to look like?
Oh...I’m planning on killing both Austria and Turkey if I can. Though, not sure yet how I’m going to pull it off. Any ideas?
Hmm. I imagine Turkey falls first. It was smart of you to take Greece so that Austria is the one at the front of the attack. Once Austria has committed deep into Turkey you should have plenty of opportunities. I think it would be a matter of just waiting for the right time. Russia may be interested in working with you since his interests and Austria's interests are probably not as aligned in the long term.
The bot is back up 😃
Sorry for the delay. Just looking at the game again now.
Hi friend, are you still there?
Basically, I am getting a bit of an ultimatum from my friends in the east, and I would like to arrange for a feint in your direction this turn, to set up an attack on Austria, but I want to share it with you first.
I believe I am getting a build this turn (crossing my fingers), and I plan to build A Ven to set up an invasion of Austria.
But that only works if he doesn’t see it coming. So my plan is to use Tyrolia to support hold Munich this turn (it’s the only way to keep that army in Tyr) and to move my fleets to TYS and TUN. Then I build A Ven, and I attack Trieste while Austria heads towards Russia and I circle my fleets back around Austria.
The one fly in the ointment is that it requires some trust from my light blue friend in the west. I can only hope that we’ve built up enough rapport that you understand where I’m coming from here, and you let me engage in this bit of sleight of hand.
Just saw the moves, and then read your messages. OK- I trust you, but don't fuck me on this. I do have a back up plan, but I'd like to not go there 😁.
I like this response.
You’re going to like my next move set, and you’re not going to need your backup plan.
I think the key here is to get Germany back on your side. England is not wavering. He sent me a case of Champaign for my last move.
Thanks- yes, England has ceased all communications with me by now
Such a charmer.
Nothing to say after that last turn?
Hey. Sorry. I try to be more communicative. Just a very long day for me yesterday. 

You seem to have sniffed out my attack quite well, and now I’m facing Austria getting 2 builds, while I likely get none. So...bad turn for me, and it may cost me the game. 

I stabbed you. There’s no getting around that. Perhaps it is some solace to you that I may have completely yanked my own game in doing so?
It is what it is, a stab on Austria has sailed past for the time being, but with any of these grand alliances there will be another opportunity later (provided that Austria doesn't stab you first). I'm going to do what I believe will maximize my chances of survival, and if that means working with you then I won't hold that grudge. It depends how creative you are willing to get. Given English communications with me, I can't imagine that they are easy to work with.
I'd like to float the option of your fleets sailing past mine and into the Mid Atlantic. This obviously runs great risks for myself, but I believe I have a higher chance of survival in the long run this way. I also believe it may be in your best interests as well. You want to get past the stalemate lines, and this is the best way to do it.
Builds are a problem for you. But they will be anyway as you have to make a coin flip guess on Spain/Marseilles. On the other hand, Austria has two guaranteed builds and more coming. Given the nature of that alliance, I'm sure Austria may be willing to share those builds with you.
I'm in a tough spot, but I also believe in the long run. That's why I want to be clear that I'm not desperate- I won't be selling myself to whoever will support me on any given turn. From my perspective, I just need one unit to be in a draw. So, if there's a slim chance for me to be a one unit survivor in a monster Italy/Austria draw, I'll help you and Austria as much as I can.
Any thoughts for me? How would you go about making a French-Italy alliance work?
Hey, so I really appreciate this string of messages.
Just really strong diplomacy. Flexible, fun, mutual advantage seeking. My kind of player.
I will respond to honesty with honesty: I really need a build this turn. I am concerned about two Austrian builds setting me up to get stabbed. For that reason, I am very much inclined to take my 50/50 shot at a French center this turn.
On the other hand, I quite like the idea of sending my fleets passed you.
So...I really like your message, and I’m trying to think how it could all work.
But, I don’t know if I can give up my 50/50 shot at a build. I NEED a build or I likely get stabbed, I’m afraid.
Also, England is very much set up to get stabbed by a surprise I/F here. I mean, that would be super fun.
I will tell you this: England and Germany are both very interested in your demise, and that makes you a more attractive ally for me, as I don’t want to see E/F grow strong and grow affectionate after breaking bread in Paris.
So I guess what I’m saying is: allow me a build this turn, and I’d be quite happy to push to be in Irish Sea next year.
You might find yourself in a bit of a janissary position, but you won’t have to fear that I’ll just stab you for all your centers because I would be far to early to make a solo run, and I’d just invite backlash from the rest of the board. I’m not a dimwit who strikes out on poorly considered solo runs too early.
(I do it at exactly the right time 🤭)
Thoughts?
Also, it would do you some good to prevent Germany from taking Burgundy this year. My head is spinning a bit from a really fun 1905 in which I support you into Munich and move to North Atlantic on the same turn.
I'm really glad that you are entertaining a plan like this. You call it strong diplomacy, but it only works because you are constantly looking for the best opportunities and going after them. I can get you a build. I thought about ways to do it subtly, but I wonder if it might just be better to go in for it. I can send a fleet from MAO to NAO unopposed. If you get a fleet into MAO, this will set up an unstoppable convoy directly into Clyde. The best way to do this would probably be to have you convoy Piedmont to Spain using the Gulf of Lyons, and use West Med to take MAO, thus allowing a future Spain to Clyde convoy.
I am going to support an attack into Mar or Spa (I will not move to both), but if you move to NAO and keep Germany out of Burgundy, I will absolutely come out guns blazing against England next year, and maybe Germany too.
Done. This gets a bit weird since the move is only really effective if you follow me into MAO, and if you tell me that then in theory I know how to defend. So instead of you telling me your moves, I'll just tell you mine. I believe that I can move to NAO, prevent Germany from taking Burundy, and hit Marseilles with a force of two all at once. This move set will leave Spain and MAO unguarded and you will be able to walk in to both. If you choose to do that, I believe we can guarantee Liverpool next year.
My best guess is that Germany will try to take Belgium this turn, and if she does ideally that build will be a fleet. My gut feeling is that while Germany may not like me very much, she seems to trust you. If you work your diplomatic magic I think she would be happy to build a fleet and attack England with her fleets.
Hmmmm, I need to stop giving you thumbs ups. You’re ruining my truth detector score.
Kind of a pointless lie if you ask me, but I won’t hold it against you. You’re in a tough spot.
Well maybe not, since it was a truth when I sent it out. But it seemed like you were not interested in going to the mid Atlantic ocean based on your messages, and I felt like it would be pointless to go to NAO if you were not headed to MAO. The other part of the equation was the fact that I offered you Spain for free- and you passed that up in favor of a guess. Maybe you didn't trust me, but it got me thinking about why you would pass on a deal like that.
Also, given the moves you attacked both Spain and Marseilles, moved out of Tyrolia, and Germany did not attack Burgundy. So there's also that 😆
I get that there was a better way to handle this. And I should have let you know that the move to NAO was off. I really am sorry about that. But you have to know that I was 100% serious about attacking England with you. I make crazy unnexpected plays like that all the time in high stakes Diplomacy games, so for a game that's more of a beta test than game, it's natural. And we can still do it too. I'd love to hear your suggestions on how to make it stick, and it's something Germany is certainly interested in as well.
I’m giving you a bunch of these 👎 for those comments.
You made a deal with me, and did something else instead. That doesn’t mean I won’t consider another deal, but I don’t want you to think that is lost on me.
Hey look- I know your upset. I hope you can see things from my point of view though. I was in the heat of the moment and I really really really wanted this to work. It would be so fun, and I could finally get back at England for being a total piece of crap. And then I sobered up and read between the lines, and realized how terrible your deal would be for me as it turns out you weren't actually offering me anything. I wanted to work with you so badly I had convinced myself to make awful moves. So if you want to downvote all my messages, you can kiss your truth telling ratio good bye. Keep it up and it will be lower than mine 😘.
Well, let me know if you want to talk about anything else.
And by the way, I think the deal I offered was pretty good for you — much better than doing nothing. It did not give you anything in the short-term, but that was because I had a short-term need and no reason to make a sacrifice to you to get a deal done. I proposed a deal that was good for me because I intended to follow through.
You may get better proposals from others, but not better proposals that they intend to actually follow through on.
Seems like you’ve decided to write me off as someone who can be useful to you, and so you’re going to spread lies to others about me instead.
That stuff gets back to me.
You don’t owe me anything. And I attacked you, so I won’t begrudge you your vengeance. But that said, I was pretty darn sincere when I said I thought there was a way forward for us.
All I wanted from you was for us to kill England first. Get you past the stalemate lines and then you can circle back for French dots. I even offered you Spain for free. If you really were interested in something like this, you would not only have your build, but be in Clyde.

That's the thing though- you don't want to be there. You want ME to be there so that you can keep pretending to be on England's side. And you want your units to be in France.

I don't doubt you were sincere. But launching an ineffective attack on England while Italy eats me from behind in the hopes that eventually Italy soloes even though he's going to get stopped at the stalemate lines because Italy just has to be friends with England? Not a fan. If there's a way forward it's with you sending a fleet to MAO and putting your fleets past the lines. Or it's with you withdrawing and finally stabbing Austria like you said you would a few years ago.

All you've done so far is build an EG alliance and waste both of our time in the med. With all your grand talk, I just thought you had a better plan than this.
At the very least you should be trying to get England and Germany to fight. At this rate they will continue to get French dots while you still are stuck at 0. You have so many units on the Western front that it honestly makes no sense for you to share spoils with EG.
I appreciate the advice. If I feel like you sincerely want to work with me, I’ll be much more inclined to encourage England and Germany to fight. Honestly, I’m quite sure that you and I, working together, could accomplish that very quickly. But lately I’m learning that you’re mostly trying to get people to distrust me.
So, I think we’re going to have some trouble bridging this gap.
If you’d like to give your centers to England and Germany a kind of payback to me, that’s certainly within your power. It’s not how I’d like this game to go, but there may be satisfaction in that for you,
Ok, I get that you are concerned by me "spreading rumors," but you and I haven't exactly been working together, so I feel like trying to get England to stop attacking me is a fair message to send. Maybe you don't know this, but I've sent England a message every season for the past 9 or 10 seasons and they have ignored each message. In fact, I'm so glad you told me about this since it proves that England is reading my messages and just not responding to them.
You seem to have interpreted this as some kind of vengeance against you. That's not the case. I'm literally just trying to survive here.
And while I can't confirm it, I heavily suspect you have your own little group with England and Germany where you all slander me plenty 😉 .
Well, you have choices about who to work with. Let me know if you ever get serious about working with me.
Anyway, I’m just going to keep flipping a coin over Marseilles or Spain. One day I’ll guess it right.
I think the best way to work together at this point is an Italian withdrawal. The good thing is that this is pretty easy. If you move to Ionian you can convoy Piedmont to Greece/Albania.
The reason why is that England has already brought their fleets around and even if we could get you into the MAO they've already set up a line that we would struggle immensely to cross.
At some point English Channel will plug up Irish Sea and NWG will go to NAO. What I'm saying is that it's too late, the opportunity is gone.
Maybe if Germany turns on England. But is that even possible at this point? Just looking at the board and the moves, I think they are along for the full ride.
Obviously you can potentially gain if you keep attacking me. But I think that's Gambler's fallacy. Actually, you won't "one day guess it right". Theoretically, it's possible for me to ALWAYS be right.
That’s not the gambler’s fallacy. And it’s not unreasonable to think that if I keep flipping a coin, one of these days it will turn up heads.
If you’d like to work with me, all you need to do is leave either Spain or Marseilles open, and tell me which one. I’ll take one build, and the two of us will round the corner.
And you won't take any of my other centers until we wipe out England?At the moment I'm defending both.
It's not unreasonable at all. Just France happens to be tough to kill, and compounded onto that I'm a very lucky person 😉.
If you are using your units to move towards England, and I feel I can trust you, I’m not going to take your other centers. That would be foolish of me to do.
Hmm. Any way we can do this without having me go down a unit? If you move to MAO I'm pretty sure you'll get in.
That just isn’t a good deal for me. Everything on the board says I should work with England against you (and so I plan to give him MAO). If I think I have a loyal France who wants to do something fun, I’m willing to shake things up. But without that, I’m not just going to call off my attack.
Nice moves. You made the right call.
Well thank you. You won 3 coin flips in a row, so the congratulations is for you. I was bound to get lucky eventually.
I do appreciate some of the misdirection stuff that you’ve done. I’ll mention it after the game, but good stuff.
I think your play had to be to try to get Austria to stab me on one of the last few turns, but it didn’t quite work out.
Thanks. You saw right through it, so it didn't actually end up helping 😂. Yeah, I was hoping to stall this out for longer, but at this point I've got to choose a side and throw to them. Me moving to NAO was an olive branch short of giving you a free dot.
Yeah, if I were you, I would have approached it the same way. You did hold out longer than most would, getting triple teamed, but you needed someone elsewhere on the board to see that it was bad for them for you to fall.
If I get a say in how my dots are distributed, I'd like them to go to you and Germany. I'm not sure how good your relationship with Germany is, but put in a good word for you with them. Whatever the case, you've set this game up brilliantly to the point where I would not be surprised to see you solo.
You are cordially welcomed to distribute dots to me at any time and for any reason.
And I like Germany too.
If you are interested in retreating to Irish, I would take support to the Channel in Fall if you’ll offer it. Could be interesting.
Sure actually. Changed my retreat to the Irish.
Cool!
If you are interested, we can move Marseilles up into Burgundy as well.
Well, that would be amazing for me. So, this is exactly the sort of creative arrangement I was talking about earlier. 

MAO - Channel
WES - MAO
Mar - Bur
Pie - Mar
LYO S Pie - Mar
Is Germany going to keep Paris?
Yeah I think Germany probably will given the situation. Very awesome orders, I am all for it.
I kind of love these orders.
They are not what anyone will expect. And I can play them off as both pro-German and pro-English.
Are we still okay with the Channel plan? Germany has been asking me about it, and it seems like she doesn’t like the plan. I’m also nervous about her tipping off England. Do we really need to run everything by her?
I am. I won't share any other info with Germany- I figured she'd want to know about the plan before it happened but I think it just made her more worried.
Cool. Thank you.
Here are my orders this turn. If you’d like to grant me Spain, I’ll raise Hell with that build, but I’m okay with you hanging onto it right now if you support me to Channel. 

MAO - Channel
LYO - Spa
WES S LYO - Spa
Mar - Bur
Pie - Mar
Sounds good. I'm not much use to you without supply centers, so for now I plan to support Spain to hold. Moving West Med to MAO may be a good idea since then you could get more fleets in action.
Hmmm, both England and Germany are sniffing around trying to get my moves. What should I tell them?
Eh, sorry. I got a good offer from the bad guys.
My plan has changed.
Haha, it was too late to change my orders, but it hardly would have mattered. It is not yet clear what you get out of that deal, but I guess it will be apparent to me next year. Surprised if you were going to stab me that you didn't go for Portugal with MAO.
Yeah, I just figured that you might keep your last unit alive as a janissary if I kept Portugal blue.
You played well this game, and frankly, one of the reasons I attacked you was that you seemed like you’d outplay me eventually if you were given room to breath.
I respect and appreciate if you want to hold out in Portugal or Gascony. But if you’d like to keep playing, one option would be to keep Irish on the board, and then support me to NAO in Spring. Then we take a shot at Liverpool. I desperately need fleets on that side of MAO, so if you keep helping me, I have every reason in the world to keep Portugal blue.
I was thinking about keeping Irish for sure. I don't have home centers so I have all the incentive in the world to help you and Germany as much as I can. That makes things completely safe for you and Germany as I have no benefit from gaining another dot. Another option is to keep Picardy with the goal of popping Brest and taking the Channel. Thanks for the kind words, though I think you shouldn't have worried about me too much. Somewhere along the line I kind of majorly pissed off England, and I think Germany probably works with them against me due to having only 1 fleet at the time. So I would have been fighting a 2V1 anyway if you had done your own thing in the East.
The ultimate fun would a convoy of Spain to Liverpool in the Spring!
So, thoughts on where to go from here?
Perhaps you’d like support to Brest?
I’m going to go ahead and plug in that support. Though, possible that England might cut it.
Already ordered! Not sure if you and Germany are coordinating, but when I spoke with her she said she wanted me to move to Brest to pop the England fleet as well.
Yes. We talked it through. 😊
Hello brother — How are things going in Brest?
Not bad. Haven't had anyone tell me what I'm supposed to do there so I guess I'm just holding
Well that’s an interesting thing to say. I’ve heard lots of people telling me what you’re supposed to do, but they have more to gain by lying I suppose.
What am I supposed to do? Haha
You are instructed to move to Channel, as far as I understand.
Good game France. 🇫🇷
Thanks! GG!
Hello there! What's your general plan for this game? My inclination when I play Austria is to piss off as few people as possible, so I don't plan on making any overtly aggressive moves this turn.
I'm not trying to step on anyone's toes just yet, either. Specifically, I'm happy to keep Bohemia and Tyrolia de-militarized for at least a couple seasons to our mutual benefit?
Sounds good to me.
I appreciate you sticking to your word. Italy tells me you two are close allies and might be willing to consider me a third central power. I wanted to hear your thoughts on this?
Absolutely true, I think the three of us could do great things together.
I'm starting to agree
If you don't mind my asking, why the bounce in Tri? And why the deception of Turkey? I'm no expert but to me these moves indicate you don't really trust Italy at all?
I want to keep Turkey guessing and off-kilter.
So the bounce was just to conceal your true relationship with Italy?
Essentially, yes.
What's your plan in the Balkans this season? I was wondering about putting some pressure on Russia by having me move into Silesia while you move into Galicia?
I don't want to pressure Russia too much until the Turk is taken care of, I don't think it makes sense for me to antagonize them both.
I thought your answer might be that. Makes sense, carry on.
Not sure if this is obvious, but Russia indicated to me that they are prioritizing defending Rumania over Ankara, in case that changes your and Italy's plans for that region. Congrats by the way on crushing Turkey
Thanks for the notice. I figure one or the other has gotta work first, and then the second will work once the first has.
It seems Italy is finally showing their true colors. Care to join the dark side?
I'm sure you're already on top of this, but if we can all recognize Italy as the enemy, then your best bet right now is to try and team up with Russia. Maybe offer to disband Arm, Bla, and Gal in exchange for support from Vie into Bud? I am wholly committed to cutting any attempted disrupts from Tyr
*support from Vie for Rum into Bud
Actually, might be better to dissolve Rum instead of Bla and let Gal into Bud
At any rate, here's a direct quote to me from russia: "And, yes, I'll happily support him [meaning you, Austria] to Budapest if he ever fecking starts talking to me again."
What's your train of thought on the draw?
I've already submitted my "moves", marked myself down for the 5-way draw, and checked "adjudicate once all players have submitted". I'm ready to be done.
I've had a lot of fun, though!
So, did you veto the draw?
Nope. It might actually just not be allowed by the game settings, because it makes no sense that someone would lie about this with the game so close to ending anyway
G'day!  Just wanted to check in, assure you I'm not the sort to pull a Crazy Ivan off the bat and try to shove all my units through Sil/Pru from the start.  Aside from that, I'd of course love to be able to pick up Sweden, and if there's anything particular we can discuss to stay at least positively-neutral toward each other, let me know!
Privyet--I won't trouble you in Sweden or Sil/Pru if you don't trouble me in Denmark. Meanwhile, I was wondering if you agree with me that this game has just a little too much Austria in it?
That sounds fair enough - and I'll pretty much always agree that there should generally only be one Germany, unified.
Are you nervous at all about defending Sweden from England?
Of course I am -it's just not my top concern. 😀
well no kidding: you and Turkey have quite a little spat going. Was just curious if you and England had any kind of agreement in place or if you might be wanting my help in a couple seasons
Meh. Most likely outcome is I get sev back in exchange for black, and Austria decides the date of rum. That area's still fluid. And sure I might want help looking North in a season or two. Lemme just straighten that southern mess first.
England told me you're assisting them to take Denmark this year. Is this true? Would you consider not doing that?
Sorry, did not see your message until this morning
I have, as you may have noticed, ceased all support of England in harassing you
Noted and appreciated. Can’t help but notice you’re in marvelous position to try and swipe Berlin though?
Hahaa, no. I already regret the damage I've done to you, and have no desire to exacerbate it.
Well the feeling is mutual. I wanted to let you know that Austria asked for my help putting pressure on Warsaw. I don't intend to do that, but I recommend you use Silesia to support your Rumanian unit into Galicia. I promise not to interfere with this maneuver if you promise to keep your baltic fleet focused on defending Sweden from England?
(Assuming, as I have, that you consider Rumania a lost cause at this point. No offense meant if you don't I'm still pretty new at this game)
Eventually, if he presses it hard enough. Ankara is the more immediate loss. Now it's just a matter of seeing how patient he is pressing in on me, while Italy becomes a softer target of he keeps pressing West.
sorry, who do you mean by 'he'?
Austria, the only one who can press Rumania. 😀
Ah right okay. Well, do let me know if there's anything I can do to help? Esp. if you're willing to support me into Denmark this year, and then I could support you into Sweden in the fall?
Hate to be a bother but I'm not going to have much time to strategerize tomorrow...
You and me both - I literally just got home and logged in.  One sec...
Damn, that's a hard one to weigh.  It's objectively the right move, just not sure how much I want to *cement* being in a fight with him, vs the slim chance he's actually going to do the holding pattern he claims.
Yeah, I think on balance I have to give him the option to follow through, and have a reason to deescalate with me so he can join the dogpile on France.  Odds are high I'm going to regret the decision and end up offering you that support in the Fall when you can't reciprocate, but I gotta take the chance with Austria obviously spoiling for a fight.
That makes sense. I do think England will follow through, anyway.
To be clear, you mean the same 'holding pattern' you two had last year, right? I just want to confirm so I can feel secure that neither England nor you will try to swipe Kiel from me this season
lol - yes, basically repeating by arrangement the same moves we did last turn *without agreement* - fecker tried to dot me 😃
Are you and England planning to high-five in Sweden and Norway again this turn? 
I still think supporting Rumania into Gal from Sil is a good move for you. It's getting to the point where (if I'm able to rebuild a unit this winter) I think it'd be worth teaming up to knock Austria down a peg
Stop reading my orders!
And, yeah, I shoulda gone with my gut last turn to support Ank - Con, but in the long run didn't really matter - they'd eventually guess right on those two dots 😃
Yeah there's nothing you can really do when two powers team up so seamlessly like that. You're still doing much better than me, though!
England has been talking with me about a Russia-Germany-England alliance, and I agree with them that it's the only thing that makes sense in the face of the Austria-Italy powerhouse. I assume England's been speaking with you as well, and just wanted to confirm the three of us are on the same page. 

On that note, the moves I have planned for this year are all geared towards attacking the west, but I am happy to change my plans if you want some support or coordination to the east.
Yes, I'm all about fecking with Austria-Italy right now. 😀
Well, let me know if there's anything I can do to help!
Italy told me they're not planning on staying in Vienna. Are they going to give it to you? (I admit that my main interest here is finding out if Munich is safe this season)
I'm not touching Munich, but he hasn't said anything to me about Vienna
Well you'd be silly not to take it, unless you have assurance from Austria or Italy that they're not supporting each other to hold vienna
Would you be interested in visiting Tyrolia? It's lovely this time of year...
To be clear, I'm offering to support that move if you agree with me that Italy needs to be stopped.
Quite likely. 😀
Well, I'll let you mull that over, and add another suggestion: 
Would you be willing to support one of Gal or Rum into Bud from Vie?

Also, me and England are on the same page about one thing: despite the seizure of Sweden, we're not trying to invade your territory any further until Italy is dealt with. But we needed England to have a build in case Italy made landfall on the British Isle.
Yeah, I already preemptively cursed at him but noted I understood he needed the build.  
 And, yes, I'll happily support him to Budapest if he ever fecking starts talking to me again. He hasn't responded to me in more than two years
Losing three dots changes a person; they'll come around.
War changes you.
Operation Flat Tyr is a go.
Awesome. Any news from Austria? They’ve not responded to me
Yeah, he's gotten quite chatty with me this turn.  I think we're good, and if you guys can contain Italy, you're probably in a good position to profit from the chaos.
Just letting you know that I'm on board with the 5-way draw, I've already submitted my orders and clicked "adjudicate when all orders are submitted". This has been a great game and introduction to Diplomacy for me. Thanks for playing!
First game, really?  Good job.  And, yes, I have had the draw set since the start of this turn - just remember that in addition to the "adjudicate when all orders are in" you do need to select "five-way draw" from the dropdown at the bottom of orders - it won't go through until it's unanimous.
Got it--thanks!
Guten Tag! Wanted to touch base about your plans for this year.
your destruction, mostly. but plans can change
Nobody makes it far without friends in this game. I suppose you're hoping to be friends with France then?
I don't consider it wise to put stock in any friendship until it's proven. However, I tend to trust people more if they are willing to give me some information before asking it from me
Well, that makes two of us then. You're welcome to ask a specific question if you have one though.
Alright then. What are your plans for the North Sea these days?
I'll be moving there this spring. Just doing a pretty standard northern opening. You taking the fleet to Holland or Denmark (or somewhere else)?
My fleet is Holland-bound. Pleasure doing business 😃
Alright, thanks for letting me know. I'd also like to talk about me going to Belgium. I imagine this is something a bit less amenable to you, but maybe something we could bargain over?
Well, now the Belgium discussion changes a bit. France has this secured unless we collaborate in opposition. Also, I can prevent your move to Denmark.
I'd be amenable to that. To be clear, Would you want me to move my fleet to Belgium while your North Sea fleet supports?
So I could do this, but to secure the move you would also have to cut the support from Bur that France will likely give to move Pic to Bel. You can just attack Bur from Mun to do this. Also, providing this support is a bit of a favor and might put me at odds with France. Would you be willing to offer Denmark to sweeten the deal for me?
how can you take Denmark while also supporting me from the north sea?
Oh I'm talking about next year. Should have clarified. But this would require you keeping out this year.
I'm sorry, but why? Why couldn't I hold it for this Winter and then dip in the Spring to let you in?
I'd sooner keep Denmark and let you be the one to occupy Belgium, if that's preferable (i.e. support your North sea fleet moving there)
The reason is because I'd need your support into denmark to be sure russia couldn't bump me out. And it's putting a lot of trust in you to expect you'll just clear the way for me.
Well so what do you think of my counter offer, then?
I certainly appreciate it. The only issue is that it still doesn't guarantee Belgium for me. France may support Bur from Pic instead, and then it would be a bounce.
I have it on, admittedly, Italian authority that France is trying to make a play for Munich from Burgundy. But even if that weren't the case, vacating burgundy would leave Marseilles vulnerable to me. So I think the only option for France that wouldn't be Pyrrhic is to move from Pic
That's fair. At the least I'd like to keep France out of Belgium, even if I don't end up with it.
Also I had to look up Pyrrhic haha
haha -- so, do we have a deal, then? I'll attack Burgundy while supporting your move to belgium, and you'll let me take Denmark this turn?
Yes, we have a deal.
Your holland fleet supports Nth to Bel and I stay out of Denmark this turn.
you have a healthy sense of distrust and I respect that. But I appreciate you not trying to keep me out of Denmark nonetheless.
Also, do you have thoughts on how we might collaborate next year? What are your goals, and what are your concerns?
You’re giving me too much credit. I forgot to click submit on my order for the north sea or something. Was surprised myself to see a hold there. So why did you back out of the deal then?
Preferred to see France there.
I can understand why you might have made that move, but I think it’s actually bad for both of us. Even if you and France team up to knock me out, france will get the better part of that deal and will then work with Russia to take you down.
If I work with France, we’ll bring Russia in on it (who needs some help after what happened with Turkey). This looks good for all three of us, and very bad for you.
The last option is for us to work together against France. On the one hand, this is a good move because France is a strong player in a strong position. On the other hand, how am I supposed to trust you at all to cooperate?
Real talk: I was given bad information that you and France were working together last round, which does not seem to be the case, but that's why I didn't follow through on our deal. I am well positioned now to take Belgium, and I can see now that, as you say, it would be much easier on me to ally with you rather than try to take you down even with France's help. But I can understand if you don't want to trust me.
I was working with France, and I still have a positive relationship with france. We agreed to stay out of the english channel, and france had agreed to support me into belgium. But this was about hedging my bets, not working against you. And you see how that played out haha.
France would love for me to be an ally in taking you out of the game over the next couple of years. They’ve been talking about convincing russia to help with the takedown.
A joint stab against france would require a high level of collaboration on our end. Something like an agreement to essentially act as one country up until a certain year. Sharing all planned moves, following up on them etc. So this would be my condition for working together.
I would be willing to do that, but as I see it, you have no reason to choose France as an ally over me at this point. So, why me?
*choose me as an ally over france
So my reasoning is that I think France is a stronger player than either of us, or at least a more engaged one. I'm getting all this tactical analysis and commentary about the state of the whole board and all that. If I help France, France probably beats me. If we defeat France together, I think we each end up with an even fighting chance.
So basically France is too smart to be left alive and the world ought to belong to us idiots 😂
What about Russia?
Haha yeah that was kind of my thinking. Russia is a little tied up in the south, and so I don't expect aggression in the north. However, france would respond to a stab by begging for Russian (and potentially austrian and italian) assistance. So the choice next year is between containing russia or being aggressive (which would mean going for sweden or St. P). I think the builds we see this winter will make it more clear what's possible.
Speaking of, what are your planned builds? I'm building a fleet in London.
Armies in Kiel and Munich
What are your plans for your north sea and London fleets?

I'm trying to decide now how best to handle Belgium and that is going to depend on whether France is concerned with defending Brest or if instead they expect help from you in disrupting anything I try to do from Holland. 

...I can offer you support in moving into Sweden in exchange for supporting my Burgundy troops into Belgium? Is that worth more than whatever France might be offering you right now?
Any thoughts on my offer?
I have another proposal if you’re interested
England. You're killin me here.
Hey sorry. Busy evening for me. Let me think a second and respond to all this..
Ok so for one thing France isn't exactly offering me anything, so there's no real comparison of your offer vs theirs.
My once concern about the full-on france stab would be that the job couldn't be done quickly enough. We could force Bel this year, but we unfortunately wouldn't be able to put France down a unit because Spa is a guarantee for France. This may even allow for a rebuild in Bre if the Belgian army gets dislodged.
That's where my new plan comes in!
Ok what's the sitch
You move fleets to Eng, Ska, and Nth this turn. Italy moves to Pie. I move Hol-Bel, Kie-Ruh, Bur-Gas, Mun-Bur. Now, France might foresee me attempting to take Gas, but more likely they want to dislodge me from Bur. This puts them in a position where they will have to lose one of Paris, Belgium, Marseilles, or Brest, and will not be able to vacate the others for building season.
France could stop by bumping Par and Mar in Gas right? And you're suggesting my moves a setup of going against russia?
Also, have you talked to Italy about this?
Damn--I didn't think of the bumping. (sorry, this is just my first game and I'm still learning). And yeah I thought you'd want to grab Sweden because why not? 

I haven't discussed the full plan, but they seemed amenable to moving to pie
Okay how about this:
Keep your fleets in NWG and NTH, but move to ENG. Have NTH support HOL-BEL. 
I'll attack BUR-PIC, move KIE-RUH, MUN-BUR. If France does a Gascon Bounce, They'll have to lose either Brest or Paris or Marseilles. If they try to dislodge me instead, I'll retreat to Gascony. 
You still get my support to march on Sweden in Fall if desired.
Keep in mind that Munich is vulnerable. Italy and Austria may have a deal in the works for that. But this is the sort of plan that I had thought through originally.
This would be a break of my DMZ with France in the channel. Which is why the success of a stab like this is especially important.
well ya could have saved me some brain cells by sharing it in the first place! 😛  
And Italy and Austria, unless they're lying, think of me as an ally. That said, my plan doesn't actually involve vacating Munich
Oh fair, because you're not actually moving into Pic, you're just cutting the support. I had you moving from Bur to Bel. Dislodging the French army from Bel could result in a disband. And if we don't get an additional supply center could mean a rebuild in Brest, which would be bad for me (adding Spain is probably a given). Have you considered the potential support of Mar from Spa s.c. ?
Yeah if my calculations are correct the French home supply centers hold. First move is to bounce in Gas to keep you out, then move spain to s.c. and lose bel. Next move is to support hold in mar from spain s.c. and then bounce paris to brest to keep me out. Bre, Par, and Mar all hold in the fall.
OK, Marseilles might be a no-go this round then. 

If you don't want a rebuild in Brest, we'll simply attack Picardy and force a retreat to Brest by an army. Not so bad for your fleet, right? I'll move into Paris from BUR
wait I mean A retreat to burgundy by that army. Then the Parisian Army will be in brest, so no rebuild will occur
Well, it kind of becomes rock paper scissors there. If I try to go into Brest it's a bounce and it remains open. If I don't, and France takes the risk of not going (probably won't happen) then it would stay open too.
Sounds like you'd like the belgian army to disband though. I understand, as it could help somebody out to take munich from Ruh.
whoa dude I just want a supply center don't go talking about people invading the fatherland

So are you saying no deal, then?
No, I'm just echoing your probable reasoning for wanting the disband of the belgian army rather than its retreat to Ruh.
I don't see what that has to do with you, though? Like what difference does it make to you whether that army disbands or retreats to Ruh?
The disband allows for a rebuild, if there's an open home supply center and France still has 5 total. So this could mean building a fleet in Brest.
ohhh I see. So what you're saying is you'd accept the deal if I didn't arrange for the disband and allowed a retreat to Ruh?
Let me sleep on it. I may be fine regardless. I'll confirm moves in the morning. But for this plan, Spring looks like your support into Sweden and my support into Belgium. I'll be very curious to see moves from Russia-Italy-Austria. If they all converge in on you, this could be trouble. I doubt that level of collaboration is going to happen though.
hang on would you be willing to postpone your sweden march until Fall? I'm not so keen on forcing Russia into the baltic
You'd still hold sweden by winter
Yeah that would be fair. Just need to run it by russia that norway is a hold in the spring so that doesn’t raise any eyebrows
Well, or you could march into Finland just to spice things up
Well England you've taught me an important lesson
This isn’t a full stab. I’m sorry for the deception though. I hadn’t heard whether Italy was anti-French. Now I have. I’m taking Denmark this year with Russian support. I’m sorry for that too. Kiel can’t save it. I’d suggest you bounce kiel and munich in Ruh and then attack holland from belgium to cut support . This will hold the line (unless france decides to let you into belgium, which would be unlikely).
I know you don’t want to take advice from me, but you’re kind of in survival mode now. We can talk about belgium for you next year to get you back on your feet.
England, I have 0.0 reason to trust your advice regarding France. You're so clearly working with them!
I think the tactical suggestion stands on its own though. You can work through the rules to verify it makes sense (and should, in case i’m making a mistake). Also I don’t know france’s moves this season. And you should ping italy to talk about me.
Nice! I guess you knew what you were doing.
well not really--I just assumed that attacking a convoying fleet would disrupt the convoy and that was apparently wrong
Yeah you have to dislodge. But you held ruhr! And my way wouldn’t have worked actually. That’s a stalemate line if you do the same moves except the fleet goes to belgium (i think). Can only be broken if i support it. Of course france could choose to let you in to ruhr as well
Hi, not sure what you heard from italy. Looking forward to the three of us working against france though. Let me know where you’re at with this. I’d help you into belgium this year.
Okay, I’m down to cooperate.
Ok. All i need from you in the spring is to not attack Nth. Then i’ll support myself into the channel. Then i support you into belgium in the fall. And i don’t touch holland, kiel, or berlin. And russia doesn’t either. Maybe we get italy to move to Pie?
Hi. I’m guessing the move to HEL was to cut support. Should have let you know I was moving out. Are you still interested in collaboration for survival? We’re both a bit threatened right now.
Hi—yeah, because of bot troubles I never got reassured last turn that you wouldn’t support, say, France into belgium or something. So now here we are! France asked me to bump Nth to cut your channel support, just fyi
To be clear I don’t intend to do that since I basically need everyone to fall back to keep my holdings this turn.
Do you have any clue what russia’s plans are?
Not sure what russia will do, but I’d be a little concerned about berlin being surrounded. I won’t be attacking Kiel so your support will go through from there.
Does France think you’ll be cutting support? Also, Italy has been sending some anti-french things my way. A three-on-one alliance could be good for all of us. Containing Russia may distract both of us if he gets aggressive.
I told France (truthfully) that I couldn't cut your support this turn
Cool. Do you need me to cut support in BAL or do you have that covered with Munich support?
Also, Italy is on board with a stab against France.
Italy told me that, too. And actually, if I could count on you to cut BAL support, it would free up Kiel to try and defend Ruhr from france for a turn. However, if you're using that denmark fleet for something else just let me know
So I have kind of a crazy idea. I'm curious what you'd think of this.
What if I let you into Denmark and I go for Sweden?
Well, if France goes for Holland I'd be in a slightly strategically worse position.
I was thinking you'd go from Kiel and bounce Holland with the HEL fleet. Then you get your build in Kiel
that wouldn't work because I need kiel to support berlin, i think?
Is Munich occupied doing something else? Italy told me he has no plans of cutting support there.
Oh I guess Bur can do that though...
that was my fear...
Hmm... Yeah it may be safe to not do that then. Maybe next year. I may go for Sweden regardless. But if russia sees it coming and goes in, that could be a bit annoying
But without action, Russia probably takes Ank this fall and builds in Stp.
Is it worth losing the channel this turn? because you could take sweden for sure if you were willing to use nth to convoy
Nth can't convoy to Sweden. SKA is in the way.
doesn't need to. just convoy to norway and move your fleet from norway to sweden. then attack the baltic fleet from denmark. that way you don't lose norway
BAL could move to sweden to bounce. only way to guarantee would be to support from Denmark
ah crap you're right. sorry, wish I could help but all I have are land troops
No worries. I'll give it a shot regardless. And if I do get the extra build, I can provide some serious support to your moves west
Things are getting a little rowdy haha. The good news is that we both outlasted Turkey!
RIP.
go team!
you held the channel! but no sweden yet...
Yeah. I think the bounce there will be a start of negotiations with Russia. Clearly we were both on the same page.
And you got holland back!
ach but now there's French in ruhr that'll be a pain
A bit. France starts to crumble when I don't have to support my fleet anymore, which is when Italy forces France to go south with its MAO fleet. Then I can start supporting your moves and we can get you into belgium, etc.
Are you gonna try for sweden again this season? France told me that they're not moving their Mid-Atlantic fleet and instead would prefer to oust you from the channel. 

Italy gave me the idea of supporting your Welsh troops to convoy into Belgium. But if I did would you mind giving it to me in the Fall? I could be way more useful to you if I could build another unit this winter
(I told france I'd interrupt your support from Nth in exchange for France letting me take belgium next round, but at this point I almost don't think of Belgium as being theirs to give, hence I'd rather work with you)
Russia and I plan to repeat the Sweden bounce. If that's to be trusted, this frees up Kiel and Munich.
I'm happy to give you belgium. My idea of the split is you get Bel and Par, I get Bre and Por, and Italy gets Mar and Spa. Obviously this won't all happen this year. But you in Bel makes sense long-term
The convoy makes me a bit nervous because if France goes to IRI, they'll get a home supply center in the fall.
Okay, no convoy then. 

How do you feel about reneging with Russia? If you moved into the baltic instead of bouncing and I moved into Denmark (this is also insurance in case I can't end up with Belgium this year), I could support you into sweden in the fall?
I'd prefer to keep neutral with russia, as fighting a war on two fronts would be a lot for me. Belgium isn't guaranteed for you this year, but I think it's likely. France will have to respect the pressure in the south from Italy. This frees me up to cut support in Pic and support you in from Nth. Then you just have to cut support in Ruh and Bur (if there's still something there in the fall).
If France is honest with me, Ruhr will be free and Bur will be occupied. 

Let's be real here, though: Russia has at most two units to spare to threaten you, and likely not even that given the imminent pressure from Austria. I'm trying to work it out in the sandbox now but I really don't think they'd be an issue for you...
Russia can support into Norway once he's in Sweden, and NTH won't be free to stop that.
Okay that checks out. Thanks for your patience!

...I was thinking of asking russia to support me into denmark this turn and offer to support them into sweden next season. I'm doing this a) to confirm for you that they're on board with the bump as you say, and b) to show that I'd like to work to build trust with them. However, if Russia already knows you and I are working together this will establish the opposite of trust. So I guess I'm asking if you think this is a good/useful idea, and also asking what russia knows about our plans?
Russia can only suspect that we're working together at this point. I haven't given any indication of collaboration. I'd say ask away.
Are you definitely committed to not cutting support in Nth?
I really, really am. Maybe I'm just not creative enough, but because of my alliance with Italy, who is in turn strongly allied with Austria, I just don't see myself ever getting anywhere in this game unless I can expand westward into France. Hence, even though you're honestly scarier right now I'm inclined to be on your side for the foreseeable future. 
Now, you could just go copy-paste this message to France and I'd be royally screwed, so I hope that helps you believe you can trust me.
Haha ok, glad to get the confirmation. On my end i’ll confirm I am totally anti-french until France is out of the game. I’ve actually ceased communications with France (maybe something we can all do once the stab is clear). I’d like all three of us to get our two builds each together. Then we can look east.
Russia's loyal to you even in the face of my temptation, btw.
We’re in a great spot. Belgium for you is a guarantee. Planning to take from holland or ruhr?
Why do you ask? I assumed you were going to disrupt support from Picardy with a convoyed army while I disrupted Burgundy? That way you can still use Nth to support the channel in case France decides not to bother defending in the south
I’m a little worried that a clever france may let me into Pic, knowing that belgium is gone, and then move into IRI for invasion. I’d almost rather cut Pic with the channel and risk losing the channel. And my favorite option is to support ruh to bel from nth, also risking the channel. The logic is that if I lose the channel, it won’t be for very long, but if I lose a home supply center, that will be very annoying. France seems pretty upset with me, so a kamikaze move to screw me over isn’t out of the question.
Yeah, I'm getting that vibe from France too. Let's go with moving me from Ruhr
Sounds good. Consistent with that theory, we’d advise italy to support into Spain instead of Mar. It’s a tough call though
I mean, not really. The way Italy's positioned it seems like Spain is the only right call and that Marseilles will fall like a domino on a fault line next spring?

...unless we could confirm that France really doesn't intend to defend. Then Italy could potentially swipe both in one swoop. But even if France is saying such things to me (and they are) it's still a risk
Marseilles isn't guaranteed to fall next spring. Suppose Italy supports into Spa. France can block that supporting MAO from Gas. Suppose in the spring, Italy changes course and goes for Mar. France can then support Bur to Mar from Gas. Unless I'm missing something, it's a guessing game until you're in Bur.
God dammit. Just when I think I get this game, I’m still not clear on how the ‘coast’ thing works with fleets
Do you think I could trust Russia not to try to swipe Munich if I tried to take Bur this turn?
Yeah the territory can only be occupied by one unit regardless of coast. But a fleet must go to either the north or south coast. MAO can go to both. The coast matters if say you want to go from Spain to Mar. You can go there from the south coast, but not the north coast. And if you wanted to do this, you could coordinate a bounce with the Ber and Tyr armies so Russia can't sneak in. You're planning to sneak into Mun unsupported?
sneak into Bur*
well, at least to try for it. i hadnt thought of bumping with italy because i assumed tyr would move into pie
Well your move only works if we let Bur into Mar, which means Italy doesn't try for Mar, which means pie would hold.
oh i thought italy was trying for spa? or rather, wherever italy decides to go there's a chance it might work, and then they'd want someone in pie
We'll have to see which move Italy wants to make. If Italy goes for Spa, the choice is between a hold or an attack from Pie. I would say a hold makes most sense for Italy if you've decided you're going for Bur. This is because the alternative may be a bounce with Bur and Pie armies in Mar that would foil your plan to get to Bur and wouldn't give Italy anything.
Okay that makes sense then.
As long as Italy doesn't want to try to convoy into Spain from Pie. Then Marseilles could be left open *and* tyrolia could potentially move into piedmont
Yeah that could be an idea. Well, let me know when you hear from Italy. The good news is France will definitely be down one this year and maybe down two. And our progress will continue next year. At some point we should talk about post-war things.
Does post-war things mean how we're going to deal with a seriously overpowered Austria/Italy?
Yeah. Though the move into Trieste by Italy is interesting. I'm actually starting to worry about collaboration with France. Would Italy really be so greedy as to start a war on two fronts? Also, had you asked for a hold in Pie? (not that it would have changed the outcome)
I asked but Italy told me that they couldn’t guarantee they would or wouldn’t, and I can understand wanting to keep that info need-to-know. But what makes you think Italy and France would collaborate?? Also, I’m not so sure you should read that seizing of trieste as an act of war; Italy *did* help Austria take two supply centers this turn. Austria might have given it willingly
*would or wouldn’t hold Pie
Austria expressed frustration to me about it. Also, Austria can't build. All of its home supply centers are occupied. And Italy only helped with one supply center, right? And yeah the France theory may be a little paranoid, but why would Italy make an enemy out of Austria now while occupied with France?
What are your thoughts on the France campaign for this year?
Also, italy and austria’s stories about trieste don’t line up. Italy says it was an offering
Right that's what Italy told me, too. So I'm not sure. Can I confront Italy with what Austria told you?

I will be moving Kie-Ruh for sure.
We can half-heartedly attack Pic this spring if you want (I'll move Bel-Pic, you support), though I doubt we'll get anywhere with it
Munich will support Kie-Ruh
And Fall I'll do a three-sided assault on Bur. 
None of this is very exciting though.  If Italy can't make headway we'll probably be stuck in a holding pattern until you can shift some resources from the baltic.
Actually, I got Italy on board to coordinate with us to leave one of Marseilles or Spain open for France to fall into. If you’re feeling adventurous, you could try for Mao, or if not I’ll try for Bur. Let me know which you prefer and we’ll talk plans
Italy is now saying that he told a secret that Austria didn't want him to tell, and that I shouldn't tell Austria that I know that Trieste was arranged... Sigh.
I'll get back to you on MAO. Likely I won't, but maybe with very friendly Russian disbands. Trying for Bur makes sense.
Well you couldn't ask for friendlier disbands than that! What do you think about making a play for MAO? What if I could get Italy onboard to support you in from WES?
Also, I'm wondering what your thoughts are on taking Russia's northern holdings. 
On the one hand, it's more power for you, but on the other weakening Russia is pretty much the same as feeding Austria.
I'm nervous about MAO because I'd really like to keep holding the channel. Yeah I need to decide what to do with Russia. It's really tempting to scoop up some supply centers, but that would be the end of Russia.
In other news, France (who continues to message in spite of my ghosting) just pointed out that Italy has a number 1 ranking on playdiplomacy.com. The username checks out, but that's about as far as I can verify.
Right France told me too. So it may be worth reconsidering our deal with the devil
I think France may still have to go though. We can't be both allied with France. Geographically it doesn't really make sense. However, me you and Russia vs Austria and Italy might work well for us.
I think so too. But, realistically, as things stand now you, me, and Russia V. italy/austria just looks like me and russia getting sh*tkicked while you hang out in the back. So the question ought to be, can we afford to take down france before I/A get too powerful? Or is it worth it to put aside eating France to nip this in the bud?
Russia's actually in a really good position if I choose not to invade. I'd have to go over the tactics, but I'm pretty sure that line will hold in the south.
And then you can support Mun from Kiel.
When the time comes
I can bring my fleets around this year to support the attack on France, and that would put us in good position to face italy. But we'd have to play it off as just going for France until France is gone.
but i thought you said you weren't gonna go for MAO?
I won't try from the channel. But I can bring the Nwy fleet around this year.
Why the fleet in berlin btw?
Well I figured that I'd need at least one more eventually, and that since my whole northern border is coastal a fleet might be better for defending that. But it'll be all armies after this I think.
That makes sense, though it does seem like it will be stuck there for a while unless you start coming for me and russia
Well at some point we'll all turn on each other, I assume. But I don't see that happening for a while. Not til France Italy and Austria are dealt with
We can always play to a three way draw! So does this mean you would be committed to a Russia-Germany-England alliance until the others are dealt with?
And to a point you made a few messages ago about me hanging in the back: Dealing with Italy is going to take a lot from me. He's got the fleets that only I can deal with.
Yes, that's what this means. However, Italy and France are both pretty talkative with me these days which could be useful for us. So don't go spreading it around that my true allegiance right now is to you and Russia.
 
And speaking of fleet things: if you're not doing anything with Nth this turn anyway, could you help me out by supporting Hol-Bel? I think it makes sense for me to have a fleet with channel access in case you ever need support or a bounce there to keep France out. Maybe some sunny day you'd even trust me to hold it for you, though I understand if not.
What sorts of things are you hearing from Italy and France? Also, are you talking to Russia? I'm planning to support the channel with Nth
I just messaged Russia. I told them about your suggestion of a three-way alliance, and that I was mainly focussed on attacking the west this year but if needed I could readjust to spare somebody to support in the east.

I haven't heard back from France yet, but I am sort of playing double-agent with Italy to ensure that France can continue countering Italy's Spa/Mar plays and it just looks like luck. This keeps Italy in check until you and I make progress in the north and are better positioned to push Italy back.

I should have mentioned, but a third reason for the fleet build last turn was to keep France's trust. I figured it made sense anyway for the other two reasons I mentioned, but I did want to make sure France is willing to listen to me about Italy.
Interesting that Italy was willing to give up his guess to you. I had considered the idea of feeding France info like this, but he wouldn't have believed anything I told him. And yeah it makes sense that something else was going on with the fleet situation.
What moves do you have planned westward?
Italy was willing to give up their guess because I requested that Marseilles be left open so I could take Bur, (which I plan to attempt w/ Munich this turn), and Italy agreed.
Did italy explain why he didn't keep his end of the deal? Cause he moved to Mar
no I mean this turn
Ah ok. Cause we had talked about it last turn as well.
Last turn they didn't give me anything useful
Gotcha. Italy had asked me for support into MAO, which would not be consistent with that though.
I did say no. Or rather haven't said yes. I'm curious about the timing though.
Today at 5:11 PM, italy said to me: "If I leave Marseilles open, would you kindly use Burgundy in the Fall to help me take Marseilles? (Likely that means ordering Burgundy to Gascony to cut support)". So, it could be that both are true and Italy plans to do *neither*--rather than try to take Spa, Italy's gonna try rearranging?
*5:11 central time
Ok at 6:08 PM EST, italy asked about MAO. So that's around the same time. I'm not going to support MAO and told Italy as much.
France would probably just cut in Bre anyways.
Was that the reasoning you gave for not supporting?
Just that it wouldn't be fruitful because France would cut support. I also said that I was eyeing it for next year (which will be obvious from my upcoming move of the Nwy fleet)
Alright well sounds like we resolved that little mystery. Statecraft is exhausting.
Haha yeah. I don't know if I would do online diplomacy again (I've only done it in person). I've spent wayy too much time thinking about this game. But it's alson been fun
I'm prepping for an august in-person game I have scheduled with some friends
I have also been spending way too much time thinking about this! Yeah the days between adjudications are just too much.
I agree. In person is exhausting for other reasons though. You have to take a whole day out and it’s much more stressful when you have 15 minute negotiations and everyone is in the same house.
oh I didn't even think of the logistics of in person negotiating! So if you and Russia disappear for five minutes everybody knows somethings up?
Yeah, and also you see little cliques start to form. Like three countries will get together and then go quiet when someone else walks in the room. And you can just shout stuff to the room if you want. Also tactical and order errors are more common. And intentional order errors are a thing.
That sounds like a perfect storm of social- and tactical-anxiety inducing stimuli. I think the ideal thing from my perspective would be online play with three adjudications per day. So it's about the same level of commitment as a really active group chat.
Yeah people get pretty emotional. And I do it with a group of friends too. We decided we could only handle it once every 6 months or so.
three times a day would be too much for me I think. I feel like I wouldn't get any work done.
I could see that. But sacrifices have to be made.
Haha I'm NOT a multitasker, so I'd bet the sacrifice is bigger for me than it is for you. Also, I feel like it would be easier almost if I wasn't on the computer all day for work as it was. But having work and recreation competing for the same screen is really distracting for me.
you just described me. and my situation. But I take summers as pseudo-vacation so there's not as much consequence
Yeah that's not a bad way to do it. I'm a grad student in the same school/department as admin actually. So I've also got a pseudo-vacation not taking classes or anything, but I'm still trying to be productive.
I'm in admin's department too! I should have realized: only grad students feel as guilty about spending time doing things they enjoy as you seem to 😛 
But back to business: any chance of letting me borrow Denmark? I figure that with Northern Russia out of the picture your fleet's just sort of...parked there. But if you let me have it I will either build an army in Ber to help out Russia or an army in Kiel to fight France with. I totally understand if you don't want to, though.
Anyway, regardless of how you feel about the Denmark issue, I just hatched a plan to potentially help France keep resisting Italy, if you're game:

Tell Italy you've had a change of heart and want to support them into MAO this turn, on the condition that they free it up for you by moving to Portugal next spring. 
If italy agrees, let me know. I'll tell France to put all power into defending Marseilles and Mao. 

The hope is that since last turn *I* was the one who knew Italy's move and this time--as far as Italy knows--only *you'll* know it, Italy won't smell a rat when France is lucky in defending again
No way! I wonder if we've been walking past each other in Iribe and without any idea that we're both in the study. And let's bring up Denmark again when I have another build secured. Who knows how long it will take to get into Brest.
That's a reasonable plan for Italy. Let me get a sense of where Italy's head is at first. He may not even want MAO anymore.
Can you explain the fleet move btw?
Honestly because I thought you’d say yes to giving me Denmark.
I doubt we’ve run into each other because I’m in St Louis for the summer
Yeah, we should have talked about that  before probably. On its own, the move has a somewhat anti-me connotation. And yeah I definitely have not been to St Louis this summer haha
You're going for Bur this season?
Sorry to spook you! And not to beat a dead horse, but: you claim you want to secure another build, but with your denmark fleet basically stuck where it is, it’s not like keeping it is going to help you with that goal. That supply center’s doing nothing for you except maintaining the unit bound to it. *I* on the other hand, could help you get what you want by getting another build.

If you have plans to use the denmark fleet, I’ll respect them, because right now our goals are the same. But I see no point in keeping the fleet just for its own sake.

Yep, going for Bur
Yeah I mean it's a bargaining chip. Russia has to be in my good graces while I have it. And it's something I could offer you in exchange for something nice. It's not clear to me why you need it right now. Paris has your name on it. You'll win the eventual for Mar with no trouble.
Alright, that’s a valid reason.
I was feeling more urgent about it because I think it’s paramount that Russia get some aid against Austria.
Yeah that's fair. I think Russia is clever enough to re-instate the stalemate, though. Maybe I'll drop him a line to see what he's thinking.
BTW italy plans to literally randomize his move choice.
Thanks for letting me know!
Nice job on Bur. Let's see if we can get you paris next year!
What's your plan for taking MAO? If you want to move Eng-IRI I will support Nth into the Channel?
Yeah i was thinking the same actually. Only risk is a bump in IRI i think results in dislodge of the current channel unit. I’m willing to risk it though. France at this point is likely trying to choose who to annoy the most as he goes down. I have a feeling it will be me, even though i’m not the one taking his territories so far. I’ll probably go another year without a build unfortunately
Patience, my tea-sipping friend 😛 
But if you dislodge trying to get IRI that means you at least got Nao, and putting the unit in Pic would help you take Brest anyway
Oh i’m planning nwg to nth so that i’m still in nth. Do you think the brest fleet may move to Pic?
ya know, if you'd just let me have Denmark back you could keep Nth *and* get at least one of Nao/Iri/Brest this year.
I can keep talking to France to see where their head's at, but I think a move to Pic is probably not in the cards. If you were to predict it France'd lose Brest!
Are you still on good terms with France? Was the move into Bur expected?
It was, actually. France has seen the end coming for a while, but since I was willing to work with them against Italy while you two ghosted, they're more amenable to my invasion that yours or Italy's.
Makes sense. Well, let me think about whether Denmark is a possibility (though I’m still very hesitant) and get back to you. And I let me know what France is up to with Brest.
Alternatively, why not just leave Nth empty for a turn? 
I'm working on figuring out France as we speak...
Cool. And I suppose I could, though it does leave me a little vulnerable. Maybe we could talk a bit about what our collaboration looks like over the next couple of years
Well, I can say definitively at this point that France prefers to mess with Italy over you. Basically they don't want to see Italy totally dominate this game. I encouraged this by saying that Italy's going to try for MAO this turn and they should focus on defending that. 

Wrt the next couple years, my idea is this: it's crucial that you take Mao, and that I take Paris. From here, you and I can work on beating Italy out of the Iberian, such that you end up with Portugal, Marseilles, and Spain and I end up with Brest and Paris (though you can have Brest at first). From here we're well positioned to start hitting Italy on their home turf, esp. if Russia can keep hammering away at Austria
...any thoughts on this?
That all makes sense. Thought I'm a bit surprised that you'd rather have Brest than Mar. What's the reasoning for that preference? And how long would you let me hold onto Brest?
I figured this split would give you land and sea options for attacking italy and not for attacking me. But I was just spitballing, and it may make more sense to divide it your way...And you could hold Brest until we were the only two in all of France and Spain, I suppose
have you made a decision yet about what to do about Nth?
I prefer to do the same moves as last time. So Nth would be a hold. I don't think MAO is going to IRI or NAO. But you would have the inside scoop.
What would you do with Bel if it was freed up?
Wait when you say Nth is a hold, do you mean you *don't* want to try for IRI like we talked about, and you're just holding the channel?
That’s what i’m thinking now, yes
*just holding the channel and convoying to Brest?

And if by "it" in "what would you do with Bel if it was freed up?", you mean Nth, then probably move it to Pic in case France tries to bounce me out of Paris. But it might make more sense for you to just convoy to Pic, in which case Bel could support you into Pic
oh nevermind you mean "what would you do with Bel if Bel wasn't supporting Nth"? Well, my answer still applies
...Would you like me to support your army into Pic?
That army isn’t leaving the island until france’s fate is sealed. Otherwise I open up my home centers to France.
but you did convoy to brest last time? Was that just because you were sure the army would bounce? 

So then basically everyone's holding still except you're poking Nao?
Yeah that’s my plan. The convoy was because if it worked, I could just build on the island and be fine. But i’m taking on a risk if i can’t guarantee the build.
ohh gotcha. I'm moving Bur-Par, Ruh-Bur. Everyone else is just staying put
I really am curious about your relationship with France btw. Italy mentioned that you asked him recently whether collaboration with France was ok. But what could that mean unless it was against me?
🙄 Italy said that you were plotting against me, too! They're just trying to make us suspicious of each other!
So you’re saying italy lied to me? I’m gonna make you click that thumbs down if you’re trying to fool me here.
Well, no. It's true that I asked Italy about collaborating with France, but only because France wanted us all to be able to talk about its last will and testament together. I didn't bother asking you because you had been pretty clear on ghosting France, but I wasn't sure whether Italy was or not til I asked
But it's very possible that Italy took this fact and warped it to make you suspicious of me
So, while we're at it, is there anything you might have said to Italy to indicate you were planning to turn on me?
Well i’m glad i asked the follow up question. Did italy agree to being part of this discussion? And how did the discussion turn out. Is France going to take out his anger on me with a final stab? Are you going to help him? And yeah i’ve absolutely been talking up anti-german things to italy. I want him to be confident in where i stand so he doesn’t expect a stab.
Oh italy said "I don't trust France" and that was the end of it. So no, there didn't end up being a discussion except me telling France that you're gunning for Brest (which was obvious anyway), and that Italy's shooting for Mao this turn (which may or may not be true--but by this time you and I were strategizing and I wanted to keep France out of our way). 
If france *is* planning to stab you, they're intentionally throwing me off the scent. Which would be surprising but not unheard of. So no, I'm not planning to help in a stab I know nothing about.
Well, to be clear, another consequence of my and France's conversation was that France is just letting me walk into Paris this turn (unless they're gonna stab me but I doubt it)
Yeah i believe that. So i guess it’s just giving italy a hard time then, or maybe some unexpected movement north. Has italy talked to you about attacking me?
Post-france?
Well yeah. In the same convo where they said you were plotting to stab me they gave some reasons why it's better for me to side with them than with you. So no specifics but Italy clearly wants us against each other. But I don't think either of us stand a chance if we fall for that.
*no specific attacks were suggested, I mean
Gotcha. Well i think we have to acknowledge that our alliance would be sort of geographically awkward. I think that makes the alliance stronger actually, but we should be honest with each other about an exit that gives each of us a fair shot in the endgame.
okay...well, as the person who has ever seen an endgame before, what do *you* suggest?
I think we agree to coordinated actions until italy is dealt with. I think you in brest is actually more fair, although less ideal for me. I think we need to pick a victor of the russian-austrian war. Austria is an easier pick because i can take russian dots and austria can help with italy.
Alright. But it will be harder to flip Austria against Italy, I think.
Nah, i’ve been working on it a bit, and it’s only natural once his current conflict is mitigated somewhat
I think between us we should find a split of dots we feel comfortable with. Not that it can’t change in future negotiations. But i think it’s easier to stay friends when the end seems fair from the get-go
We don’t have to do this tonight, but soon.
Okay, soon. Glad we had this talk 😃
Fwiw i’m a relative first-timer too. I’ve played two or three times in person, and the first time we didn’t finish. I think everyone else plays a lot more. Would be nice to make this an underdog story.
Regardless of which way it falls in the end.
I think so, too. And Italy is like the over-est of dogs.
You lost me haha. The over-est of dogs?
like, the opposite of underdog would be overdog. And Italy is the most over-est overdog there is.
*the overwolf, perhaps
Haha gotcha. Do we think he’s actually the number 1 guy like france said? He denied it to me. But the username lines up.
I think it's more probable than not. Although, I also think it's really unfair to have that information leaked when other players get the benefit of a clean slate. That said, just looking at the way Italy moves and talks it's clear that they know what they're doing
Yeah he’s definitely a good player. All the better when we take him down.
ugh I really wish everyone'd stop using *he* all the time. France and Italy know each other from outside this game, but it irks me that "he" seems to be the default. Out of curiosity, do you/others use "she" when referring to me?
I had been using “they”, but then i stopped once i saw other people using gendered pronouns. My rationalization was that the other players must have been confident in their correctness to start using them, but obviously that’s not true. We use “she” for you. France said it to me first i think. Happy to commit to being gender neutral in future negotiations (with all players)
I didn’t mean to be directive—it doesn’t matter that much to me, but it makes me feel better if I know people aren’t just doing it mindlessly, and are actually matching it to players they know. I never specified to France that I use “she” but my username is feminine so it was a fair assumption.
Yeah that’s totally fair. I will admit I had floated the idea of trying to play feminine and flirt with one of the probably straight male players to gain favor. The username’s a giveaway though. And that might be taking things too far haha.
That can’t possibly actually work, can it? The flirting, I mean. This is a serious game for serious-minded individuals 😛
...”, she writes, before adding a playful emoji at the end.
All’s fair in love, war, and diplomacy 😉
Ouch! Still open to collaboration, but we’ve got some trust building to do
I wasn't sensing any trust from you, either: you were unwilling to return Denmark or to leave Nth empty, and you're right about our alliance being geographically awkward. 

I want to be a good ally with you, but the difference between you and me is that you get a cozy corner of the map and I'm right in the middle. I need to be able to grow my army to defend all my various borders. So I'm asking for Denmark a little less politely.
Well now you've seen me make exactly the moves that I said I would, so hopefully you have some trust in me. I see what you mean about the cozy corner, but coziness has its disadvantages as well. Once somebody gets on the island, it's a really bad time. And I need fleets or convoys of armies to get anywhere off the island. Makes expansion difficult.
As far as denmark, the aggression there is fair. But you understand why I'm hesitant to drop down to 4 dots at this point in the game. Fortunately, there's an opportunity to do business here now that you're adjacent to Brest.
I'm definitely a bit upset about the support into the channel you gave and all of the lying. You didn't need to lie about your moves to amp up the aggression on denmark: I never asked for a full list of moves.
That's true, I was overcompensating because it really seemed like your trust in me was low.
Well, it's a vicious cycle. Mistrust breeds mistrust. So how can I trust now that you're not just going to continue working with France on an invasion?
Because France is literally about to not exist, for one. And for another, because Italy is planning something that will be bad for both of us.
Planning something specific that you know about?
Yes. But I was told specifically not to tell you so I need you to not mention it to any other players. I know that's a hard sell coming from me, but I need you to promise.
Alright. It’s a promise. Who’s the info from?
Doubly confirmed by France and Italy. They've reached an agreement to give Italy the channel. When I confronted Italy about it, Italy said they wouldn't do it if I didn't want them to, but also admitted that they wouldn't have told me about it if I hadn't asked.
But France also told me they would reneg on Italy if I asked. So, on the one hand, I could tell italy to call it off and things could proceed some unknown way. On the other, I could get France to reneg, and the three of us could turn this to our advantage. What do you think?
It’s certainly possible this is true. Though italy had told me he was actively deceiving France into getting the brest unit to do something unusual
So if Italy is truly going for the channel, he went so far as to cover his tracks by warning me he may have suggested something like this to France
To what extent has italy communicated plans of an alliance with you?
I mean that doesn't seem out of the question for Italy. Italy has told me point blank that if it's a choice between you or me, they'd choose me. I'm sure they've said the same to you.
Did he give any reasoning for that choice?
Some bull about how I'm an honest communicator. That raised a red flag for me because Italy's too smart to need honesty from me. You're the better strategic choice. 

So, it's entirely possible that Italy fed me this plot through France as some kind of ploy. And even that the two of you are already working closely together to ruin me, although I do hope that's not the case.
I agree with all that. I’m just trying to tease out who he’s lying to, as that may provide some advantage. Honestly he’s been more pro-English than anti-German in his communications with me. I think he maybe just doesn’t want me to go tattle to you though.
So what moves would you want to see from me this fall?
I'll tell Italy the deal is off, then you move Den-Nth, Nth-Eng (supported by Bel), Eng-Bre (supported by Paris). Mao will take Portugal and you'll take Mao? I know you'll have to trust my support in two places, but it's worth it to me to get two builds this turn  without a fuss and keep Italy localized to the south.
Did italy tell you MAO would take Portugal?
No. I haven't given them my opinion on the channel deal yet. But that would be what I'd suggest they do instead
Alright. Would you be able to confirm that this is where MAO would go before I agree to a deal?
I just sent Italy a message about it, so I'll see what they say.
What has Italy been saying to you lately, by the way?
He suggested some defensive tactics to me.
Defensives against me? in Denmark? Or France in Iri? Or both?
Both. He’s under the impression that we are not friendly after those last moves. I don’t plan to take his suggestion though
I'm wondering if these defenses involve you not supporting Eng, which would kind of half-confirm the plot.
They do involve me not supporting Eng.
Italy said they are busy this weekend (hard for me to imagine people having a life, but it must be so) and won't get back to me til monday.
Gotcha. I’m playin dnd this weekend, but i’m not sure that quite counts as having a life). I’ll probably be mostly offline through sunday evening just cause i really need a break from this game
Umm the plan doesn't work btw. Gas is just going to cut the Par support that you promised me (this is the only useful thing it can do). So, no deal, unfortunately. I'll see if I can get last minute support in from Italy and let you know.
I really don't think an attack from Gascony would be an issue, but I understand that your trust in France is much lower than mine. We could still work together somehow, though?
In a tactical sense, anything else from Gascony would be a misfire. So not cutting the Paris support is just giving up Brest. I really don't think France is just going to hand Brest to me. I'm still waiting to see if I can get Italian support, in which case we're back in business. The alternative would be a more defensive move on my part (i really don't want to go down to 4 dots at this phase in the game).
Ok. Hope you'll see this before noon. Italy has agreed to support into Bre. I also require Par support for this to go through. Do you agree to provide Par supports channel to Bre and Bel supports Nth to Channel? I will vacate Denmark if so
Ok, well if I don't hear from you in the next couple of minutes, I won't assume the support and will play defensive.
Sorry I'm trying to get verification from Italy but they're not responding. That's a good default plan
I don't think you're going to get verification from Italy. Italy is online and talking to me though.
Ok do I have your supports?
Yes
Deal on!
Yep, Denmark going to Nth.
got Italy confirmation...hope this goes through
drum roll......
Yay!
wow an 11th-hour three-power deal (with a decieved france as a fourth) that actually went through as planned!
Yeah. And although we had our hiccups, this was really about as good as we could have hoped the takedown to be from the beginning.
do you think there's a chance Italy would give you Mao willingly this turn?
There's a chance. I'm surprised by the fleet build btw.
My plan is to eventually have only fleets along my northwest coast (they're more versatile in that context) and move the armies inland. 

See what you can negotiate with Italy, but no matter what they say, I'd be prepared to use your full strength to get Nao into Mao, if that's what you want to do. (And in case it's not obvious, it's what *I* think you should do)
To that end, I can support Eng  and Bre holding.
I appreciate the supports. Any idea what trouble France will be trying to cause?
I imagine you'll get a request about Bre.
France and Italy are probably not working together after last year's stab. But France has asked me if there's anything I want Pic to help with. So depending on your plans I *may* be able to push some help your way. I feel like Italy's 10 units kind of speak for themselves, so even though you and F have had your differences there's a good chance F will want to help you/us as the underdogs
Yeah I mean this turn I don't know what Pic does to help me. Anti-Italian moves are MAO as you've described. What are your thoughts on supporting Bre to Gas from Par? This would require a lot of trust from you, but would make supporting into Spa possible in the fall.
Does that mean you'd convoy into Bre? Because I can ask France to support that!
But it would also mean you don't take a shot at Mao this turn, which is something I'd want to see.
In this plan, I leave Bre open. I suppose that's too great a risk with France there?
Well, especially if I'm asking for France's help, yeah. But even without revealing the plan, I still think it's a risk.
Could you ask france for support into the channel maybe?
Or say that you'll support France in?
hmmm that could work! Then we only have to trust that Italy won't try and take Brest. Which isn't too far fetched since they *just* helped you take it
Hmm, no there's an issue with the retreat if I dislodge MAO.
Here's an idea. Tell France you're supporting Pic to Bre. Then just bounce Par in Bre.
Elegant. I like it.
Italy goes to IRI, but I can defend with the wales army
Any thoughts on Russia btw? I imagine Swe is tempting
It *is* tempting, but I'm not trying to fight Italy and Russia at the same time. And Russia's been pretty honest with me. So I'll leave it for now.
That's fair. Any intel on italy btw? Where do your relations stand?
Italy doesn't tell me anything unless they have something to gain from me. I asked if they were going to try and take the channel again and they denied it, but that could be fake news?
Take it with French support? Otherwise it wouldn't make sense
Well, I suppose I'm comfortable that Italy sees me as a friend on the board.
You're right that *if* italy were to try that again, it would take a lot of negotiating to get France's favor. So probably you're right to not be concerned.
Alright. I’ll be somewhat not available this evening, so can you confirm moves to make sure we’re on the same page?
Paris supports Bre-Gas, Bel supports Eng holding, Ber-Mun, Mun-Bur
WAIT NO (sorry I was making pie and lost track of this game): I'm waiting on confirmation from France about Pic-Bre, which I will bounce with Par-Bre
making piedmont?
And no worries
haha I wish
peach piedmont
Sounds delicious
France confirmed the move to Bre so the plan is a-go
Ouch again! Care to have a chat?
well you weren't exactly truthful either!
I think we may need to face the fact that we're just not a good match
I suppose you’re not interested in what I have to say then?
No I am. Alls i’m saying is that we should both be taking grains of salt with each others’ words
Yeah that’s fair. With what i’m about to disclose, regardless of whether you believe it or use the knowledge against me, I would ask that it be confidential from anyone else on the board (including the fact that I’m asking for this confidentiality). I know you’ve sent plenty of lies my way, but if you agree i’d really like it to be the truth this time.
I promise not to mention it to anyone else; let’s hear it
Ok just to be really specific about it: Can we agree on the story that we ceased communications. You said we’re not a good match and I said “suit yourself” and that was it? And can we also promise to not make the communication obvious without saying it exactly (e.g. “someone told me xyz” when only I could have known). And to be clear i’m agreeing to the confidentiality as well.
Okay, sure. But there’s something I want to know (and I’ll keep my agreement now no matter what the answer):
Did you in any way indicate to Italy that you knew/suspected the channel plot last year?
No, he revealed the channel plot to me without me asking
This was after you told me about it
Well that makes no sense, because after I revealed it to you, Italy reiterated to me that they really did not want you to know about it.
I think Italy wanted to be the one to tell me so he would keep my trust. I’d have to look to see whether this was revealed before or after Brest went through, but I know at least that before Brest I was confident he wasn’t going for the channel.
Well anyway, what did you want to tell me? It stays between us, guaranteed, but I would reserve the right to move according to this information if I think it necessary
Yeah that's totally fine. So last night I made a deal with the devil. One that he couldn't refuse. It's a lie that I will uphold it, but I think it's a convincing one.
Okay, go on
I told italy I would do everything in my power to get him the game. In exchange I asked to 1) be kept alive until the end and 2) get tips from him on how to play the game before my upcoming in-person game. I told him that MY win is about getting the best experience from this game so that I'm prepared for the in-person game (this is kind of true).
Since then he's told me some pretty interesting things. I'll send you some quotes.
"that thing France said about my past successes: that was true. I do have a lot of experience and I have had a fair amount of success playing online diplomacy. I just did not want you thinking of me that way."
"I’ll also note, just cause I have nobody else to talk with about this: I worked REALLY hard on this last move. Germany wanted to take Brest, but if that happened, it would have cut support and prevented your army from leaving your island. So I had to convince Germany to support France to Brest, without telling her the real reason why. And I needed you to go to NAO so that you could not guard Liverpool. There were so many lies!"
"To be completely honest, I directed just about everyone else’s moves on that turn! Russia is the one exception, but I basically knew what he was going to do. The best advice I have for someone who wants to get better at Diplomacy: just work hard. You can win by putting in more time and effort than everyone else. I have success by writing a lot to everyone all the time."
"I’m not going to lie about my moves to someone unless I am going to get a huge advantage out of it. But I spend most of the game trying to make everyone else on the board feel that I’m their closest ally, so a lot of what I say is a shade on the truth."
That's what I got.
And if italy continues to talk this way, I might have more to share, and would be happy to share it.
Damn that makes a lot of sense. Thanks for sharing!
Did he say why he was so keen to have your army on the mainland?
It's so it's not on the homeland.
I’m surprised you were willing to do that. Why?
Italy promised me Paris. You were going to go to Nth from Bel, and then France was going to retreat to Bel.
Oh so italy screwed you! 
He’ll do the same to me when the time comes. 
...would you be willing to give me some warning of when that is, if you’re involved in it? Ya know, just for the fun of sticking it to a master manipulator?
I'd obviously prefer something a bit more collaborative than that. Italy will be at 12 SUPPLY CENTERS this fall. I'm not giving up on a mutually beneficial relationship here. Especially given that I may have some inside scoop from Italy for a while.
13 if I help him into Brest.
Well look, England, given that Italy or you could be talking crap at any moment, I see taking your supply centers as a more certain path to my survival than having your/his information. If you are actively going to help him take supply centers, then at best you’re surviving at the expense of making an enemy of everyone, because you’d be italy’s dog, not his ally. It’s your choice, though.
I've not lied to you once this game. You can check the record with admin after if you're curious. Have I deceived you? Certainly. But I've not made explicit agreement to moves that I didn't follow through with. That includes Denmark (we had discussed strategy, and I said I'd confirm moves in the morning, and then I just never did, which I know was shitty). So I just want to be clear on that.
Don’t quibble semantics with me! Deception’s deception and we’re *both* guilty of it. If anything, it makes me trust you less if you think mere technicality gives you the moral high ground here
I'm not asking for moral high ground. I'm giving you my knowledge that my deception to you has historically taken the form of truth. If we work on being more explicit with our agreements, I think we can build trust there.
And regardless of whether I'm italy's dog, I wouldn't be so sure of getting my supply centers. I can defend everything this year, and I may be able to hold you off next year as well. At that point, Italy's fleets may be in position to push you off the island.
What I can't defend is Italy taking Liverpool.
You can if you retreat to Edi?
At least for this year
No I can retreat to Skag if I want. I can bounce Edi from NWG and bounce london from the channel.
So you're not saying you *cant* defend liverpool, just that you'd prefer not to. *Now* who's using imprecise language 😛
No I can't. Italy is in MAO. My army is not on the island. He can get there in one move and I can't.
NAO*
you *can* if you retreat to Edi!
or york even
Oh wow you're right. That was dumb. Yes I can.
York doesn't work because the move is illegal. Can't go around the coast like that.
Oh and actually I was right. Edi applies in the same way
Cly is in the way. Fleets have to move along the coast.
wait, I'm confused. What? The unit displaced from Nth. You haven't given retreat orders yet. Go to Edi?
Ohhhhhhh of course
A fleet in Edi can't go to Lvp. An army could, but a fleet can't
Yeah, you got it.
That confused me for a second too.
So if you're willing to collaborate, I've got some ideas, and would want to hear yours as well. I genuinely think working with me against Italy will be a better long-term strategy for you than working against Italy or alone. Italy is just too strong already. And, as I've said before, I'd like to see an underdog story.
right now my retreat is to Skag, which will not raise any alarms on Italy's end. Is this alright with you or would you like to see something different?
working with italy or alone*** for two messages ago
updated to Nwy. More friendly to you.
Well, that means a lot. 
...I take back what I said about wanting all your dots. I'm waiting for Italy to get back to me about strategy for this turn, and when he does I'll get back to you with what counter plan I can offer. I think this is going to be a turning point where I either commit fully against you or commit fully with you, and it hinges on what Italy is planning. Just know that I'm not going to offer a plan to you unless it's a real one. No contract-law trickery, no outright deceit. And if you don't hear from me, well, it's because we've *both* chosen the devil and our own glorious undoing at his hands
Haha, this is fair. Best of luck in negotiations. Regardless of what you choose, I commit to offering you any counter-Italy intel I can gather.
Would you be willing to also hear a plan offer from me?
I am. And it stays between us, of course.
So, broadly speaking, the alliance would involve Austria. And that means moving against Russia. We have a huge advantage going into Russia, which takes pressure off of Austria and allows austria to put pressure on Italy.
Alright--haha I was just in a sandbox ordering you to move to sweden anyway 😃
Hmm, you might lose Munich this year though.
This has been noted.
No specific intel there, just saying tactically it's a possibility. I don't know if italy would go for that. I mean we had discussed someone going to munich before his stab, but I don't know if that can be trusted
Well before you and I started chatting Italy denied that he had any plans for munich this season, but his word isn't exactly his bond
Yeah, not sure what he'll do there. It may be in his interest to remain neutral. Certainly if he catches any wind of what's going on, Munich is vulnerable. Maybe something to consider in setting up next year
We get to choose what happens in Brest, which is great. And then the tricky bit is figuring out how to kick Italy off the island
mhm. I was sort of depending on getting a build this turn, such that I'd have someone around to defend Mun. So I would be sacrificing that by working with you. I can convoy Holland to York?
Let's get you in Brest then.
You'd still have to dissolve somebody, then
Go down to 4, sure. But if I go to sweden I stay at 4.
I would like your help getting liverpool back if you convoy there, as opposed to having you take it. However, your army will be a little precarious on the island and will need a way off.
convoy to yor*
the threat of MAO to IRI will be a pain, but I think we can manage.
Right--I wouldn't expect to get to take it (liverpool) if you're handing me Brest. 
And if Italy and I "agree" to a plan where he does some supporting from Mao, and he says nothing to you to contradict that plan, would you take that as enough proof that IRI is safe?
Yeah, that makes sense. I'll let you know anything I hear from him. He's been quiet this morning. Ok I need to sign off for like a while to get work done. My fall moves under this plan will be Nwy to Swe, NWG to either Edi or Cly, Pic and Eng support Par to Bre,
I think the plan I have in the works might be better than yours, so I'll get back to you later!
Haha alright. Better for you or better for both of us?
Worse for italy, equally good for me, potentially better for you.
Alright, I'll be happy to hear it.
New confidential italy quote: "I suggest that you take Sweden, and I’m working on getting Belgium this turn too. It’ll be tricky to keep Germany from defending it, but I’m going to try."
Did he have anything to say about you retreating to norway instead of skag?
He was surprised, but not upset. I said my justification was that it was going to Sweden anyways and that I wanted to warm things up with Germany. Did you hear anything?
Italy only just responded to me, so nothing yet.
Still nothing from Italy, but if we *were* to have a plan, I think it should be this:

Eng s Bre-Mao, Bre-Mao, Pic-Bre, Par-Gas, Bur s Par-Gas, Nwy-Swe, Nwg-Cly, Nth c Hol-Edi
Your promptness in reporting Italy's words to me plays to your advantage: if the next message from italy to me suggests I do something that leaves Belgium vulnerable, I'll pretty much be so revolted that I'll have no choice but to stab him
Will continue to send things your way, though I’m not sure how much more i’ll hear. How come you prefer Edi to Bre? Your proposition seems to leave me more vulnerable.
Also, thoughts on messaging to France? I’m thinking I’ll ask Italy what he wants me to say, and I’ll say that. I’ll also tell you what I say
Ugh I *knew* you'd say that. (The vulnerability thing). Note the plan also leaves Paris wide open. We need to *trust* each other. But it makes more sense for Paris to move to Gascony to put some pressure on or--dare I dream it--take marseilles and the southern holdings. Since France might go poof next near it is better for *me* to be there.
And in order to help your ouster from liverpool I needed somebody on the island anyway. You're pretty much equally vulnerable whether they're in york or edi
As for French messaging, I'm not really sure. I only just messaged them for the first time this season (they asked me first what I'd like them to do), telling them basically what I've told you (that I stand at the crossroads of either playing Italy's game or fighting back with your help). I'm waiting to hear which they think I should do. If you want to urge them to help our plot, that's your prerogative.
France was expressing anti-Italian sentiments to me. Italy told me to respond anti-Italian, so that’s what i’ll do. My thought about Edi is that if you were to go to york and the rest of the plan stays the same, we get another unit to fight with. I could build an army in Edi, for example. Do you feel like you need Edi as collateral? I’m with you all the way on this plan, so i’m willing to be flexible, but I do like to understand what you’re thinking.
Same as I was thinking before: I need a build so someone's around to defend Munich. you were willing to part with Brest and let me into york, so I don't see why parting with Edi (temporarily!!) is really all that different
Alright. Can we agree on when I get it back? And how confident are you in holding Mun this year?
This just in from Italy: "France is ordering Brest to Channel. Germany is ordering Burg S Bel and convoying Holland to Yorkshire....!"
And the follow-up: "So here is the move: Norway - Swe, Pic S Channel - Belgium, Mar - Bur to cut support, Gas to Bre to block the Paris move. "
Italy's playing us both, you can believe that. He fed me the moves you specified, then turned around and fed them to you. He only gains by playing off both of us. Well, fuck 'em.
sorry for swearing.
No swearing is fine if it's against Italy. Have you made your decision then?
And I'm a little confused about what you mean by sending us both the same moves.
I mean he said "here's what I suggest: [the moves you sent me just now]" and I said "okay sure!" because deception is important in this game, i'm told. Then he told you the moves, then you told them to me! 
But because he suggested leaving Bel undefended and you *warned* me about it, I had made up my mind in that moment.
Gotcha. So we're both sworn to take down Italy? I certainly am.
I also have a bad feeling you'll be losing Mun this turn. Have you talked to Russia about it?
I'm going tell Italy I agree to the proposition. Sound good?
He's as slimy as spaghetti al'olio and he needs to be knocked down a peg. Plan on!

There's nothing whatsoever I can offer russia right now. So no, I didn't bother talking to them about it. Either it happens or it doesn't, far as I'm concerned
And yes please tell Italy you agree to those moves. I love a good surprise.
*okay to be clear plan is not on til I hear back from France. But *I'm* on board.
Plan is not on, but working together against Italy definitely on?
On like beans on an English breakfast plate
Ok, I'm going to take your word for it that English breakfast has beans
What do you think about Par support Bre to Gas?
If I get into Bre, this will leave Gas vacant. The planned Bur support of Par won't go through based on Italy's moves
From italy: "Germany is now fishing for info from me about our relationship. Does she know that we are still talking? I’d like to tell her that you’re mad at me and you will tell me nothing, but we must keep our stories straight."
All I said was "Do you know anything about what England's planning?" so he has no idea we talk
I just wanted to see if he'd be honest with me. Of course he's covering his ass by asking you first.
Yeah I believe it. I'm going to respond and say that we shored up discussions this morning (which is what we originally planned the story to be)
wait I thought 'shored up' meant 'repaired or fortified'? do you mean like 'shuttered discussions'?
Oh you're probably right. I should work on my idioms
I mean that you basically said "I don't think we can be good allies", and I was like "But, but.... " and you didn't get back to me
lol so I'll make sure not to use the same idiom as you if Italy asks *me* if you and I talk!
yep that's the story
My reply: "No, but I'd bet she'd assume it. We didn't have much to say to each other this morning. I tried to be friendly but she was kinda straight up about saying that an alliance wasn't going to work out. And I sent a message back but haven't heard anything. So I'd imagine she'd think I'm not just sitting here twiddling my thumbs. Up to you how to spin it though."
Oh, and I'm sure he'll spin me something pretty, all right.
Yeah, we'll see. And the Bre to Gas move I brought up? (repeating so it doesn't get buried)
If we can trust Italy's reported moves, it's the right call. I'd say it's our best option.

...and something that *did* get buried: I'm willing to move out of Edi during the upcoming fall. I'll dissolve my Nth fleet since its only real purpose was stabbing you anyway
Perfect. And who gets Lvp next fall?
And do you think France will do the move? I'd rather you suggest it so I keep a low profile.
I still haven't heard from France. And we already agreed that you take liverpool.
Ok great. I didn't remember if we'd explicitly brought it up. I think all of this will work out well if we get France on board. I'm attacking MAO from Channel in preparation for a supported move to Bre (Italy didn't mention the MAO moves, and I'd rather not ask at this point).
OMG I thought adjudication was midnight tonight. We've got so much time. I'll be offline for a while (or I should be, cause I need to stop blowing off work). I've ordered:
F ENG - MAO
F NWG - Cly
F Nwy - Swe
A Pic - Bre

But we'll obviously discuss as adjudication approaches/we learn more.
New Italy message: "Hmmm, Germany is backing off the bait. I think we will have to change our plan."
Well that's not true! But i *did* just disagree to something he wanted me to do in Munich...
Hang on this is good: we're gonna see what his real priorities are! He wanted me to cut support from Boh, and I refused.
"Not sure yet, but she is not going to leave Belgium unguarded so that won’t work."
Okay so he's trying to get you to change your moves regarding Pic and the channel...
Yeah. Will be interested to see what he says.
Ok signing off for a few hours now.
Okay so I'm trying a little experiment: I told Italy that the last message you sent me hinted that if *I* didn't work with you, maybe Italy would. I said that knowing this, I *know* there's more than what he claims going on with the two of you. There's a chance he'll tell *me* some "expected" moves of yours, and between what he tells me and what he tells you, we'll know exactly what he's planning. Or at least get a better sense of it.
Nice. Ok italy’s response is consistent with what you said.
[sigh] please tell me you didn’t tell him everything.
Here's what I said, verbatim (it's long...hope it doesn't break the bot):

But England's desperate. Better to talk with someone than just go in blind. And I doubt they'd turn to Russia or France because neither is really close enough/powerful enough to give real help. And there's precedent for you negotiating with someone even as you stab them: France.

...and here's the real accusation: for all your pretty words about a shared victory between you and me, you've been sneaky and you've always pitted me and England against each other to your benefit. My real fear here is that knowing my moves, and with a desperate, jovial England seeking your advice, it would be so easy to just feed England enough info to keep me weak while you chow down on the Island. 

I know this from experience: back when you were doing 50/50 shots in the south of France, I did everything I could to find out what you were planning and feed it to France. This was merely a time-buying measure, since France was outmatched and I would eventually run out of pretenses to extract your move. But I wanted to gain more dots before you took over. And I assume others are like me, hence I suspect you now. 

I'm offering this confession in hopes that you'll do the same. So just come clean and let's approach this thing as equals?
I may have gone a little overboard but all my reasoning and everything I say is factual. So he has no reason to suspect you as long as you insist we don't talk
Alright that adds up. Something about getting a message from italy about it right after you sending me that made me a little nervous. I’ve explained that we don’t talk
I've confronted him before about deliberately pitting us against each other, so he knows I've always been suspicious of your relationship
Gotcha. Ok he said that you were pressing hard for moves, and that he would respond that we’re friendly but haven’t discussed particular moves
yeah that's been his line so far. The lying bastard.
In fairness he doesn’t know my actual moves haha. Still nothing from France? Nothing from my end
Yeah radio silence. France might have a life/better work ethic than any of us. Or maybe just doesn't care about this game anymore.
Haha yeah. Well if we hear nothing that may be cause for concern. If i’m not in brest this fall, i’ll have a disband
But speaking of work ethic, i am gone until tomorrow (for real this time). Let’s reconvene in the morning
Ok sounds good
So...Italy really did not take kindly to my confession. I retaliated with “if you don’t trust me, so be it! But i’m not going to just roll over and let you dominate this game”

You can cement italy’s trust of you in the morning by reporting that I’ve approached you with a plan. We can talk about what form that plan should take, or you can just feed Italy anything but the truth. 

France is on board with the stab just fyi. Happy to leave Brest if they’re to be believed, and I think they are.
Ok. Where did France say he would go from Bre?
Gas. That’s still the plan right?
Updates on my end: France asked for my preference on where to go. I told italy this. I asked italy what i should say back. Italy said it shouldn’t matter because he believes france is lying.
Yes, Gas is the plan.
Well if you tell France anything other than gas I look like a liar
I will tell france Gas as well. And it seems like italy is indifferent about what I say, so it shouldn’t raise any eyebrows there.
Now what plan would hypothetical you approach me with??
I *don’t* think you should tell italy France’s real move. Is it too late?
Gimme a bit to fabricate a good hypothetical plan...
Not too late. But then i worry about what to tell France. I suppose if France is a spy we’re doomed anyways. But it would be bad to be found out before the stab.
What if i just don’t respond to france?
Also, i’m going to ask italy for any update on the state of belgium as if I haven’t received a plan from you yet. And then when we’re ready with the plan i’ll say you messaged me.
If france is a spy we’re royally fucked. I’m 95% sure that’s not the case.
Please lie to italy
I will. Should i reply to france though?
Also i think when you have a fake plan, you should type the message up to me like you’re asking for real. That way i have it on hand to send to italy.
Okay. Please reply to france. I’m going to sleep
I told france. If italy asks what i told france, i will say something different. But I don’t think he’ll ask.
Hi England,
I know that the last thing I said to you was that a partnership between us wouldn't work out, but I've had a genuine change of heart. The reason for that is that I think Italy is far more duplicitous than any of us ever realized; right now they may be promising you that you'll take centers of mine, and maybe even that you two will share a victory together. This is my guess because these are the promises they made to me not so long ago. But we both need to face facts: Italy has never hesitated to profit from discord between us, and will always aid the weaker of us at the expense of the stronger. 
If you're tired of being manipulated in a game Italy feels they own, I have a proposal that might get us both destroyed, but at least we'll have stuck up for ourselves and perhaps minorly inconvenienced Italy on their path to victory. This proposal involves France, who is more than willing to use their last few turns to fight back against Italy. Trusting them may be a hard sell, but so is trusting me. If I were really trying to trick you, I wouldn't ask something so unreasonable as that you trust us both. But frankly I consider knocking Italy down a peg to be the sole most urgent thing we can do to keep this game viable for any of us. 
My proposal is: NWG-Cly, Nth convoy Hol-Yor, Eng-IRI or Wal, Bel s Bre-Eng, Pic-Bre, Par-Pic, Bur-Par, Mun-Bur (I figure I'm about to lose Mun anyway, and if that happens I'll disband my Hel fleet)
Next year we'll be well-positioned to boot Italy off the island and the iberian. What do you think?
(this part is not for copy-pasting to Italy) I designed this plan to make it look safe for Italy to convoy Gas-Lvp. I know this is what they'd really like to do. I think we need to do everything we can to try and disrupt this. I know it's a riskier move trying to assist Bre into Mao but I think it's the right one. I also think that for *extra* insurance NWG should poke NAO, because worst-case scenario Italy doesn't try the convoy and moves Nao-Lvp and also moves Mao-Nao to bounce. This guarantees Bre makes it into Mao which strengthens our ability to take the southern holdings, and at worst only sets you back a turn in terms of kicking Italy out of Liverpool. In exchange for doing this riskier move, I agree to convoy to york instead of Edi and give up my build. That part of the fake plan is actually true
Italy is telling me to expect a bounce in Bre. So that’s not consistent with the convoy idea. Maybe he’s lying?
But i haven’t sent the plan yet
So all he says is "expect a bounce"? He could think *I'm* going to try and take it from you. And this could be further misdirection about the convoy.
Italy can't make a bounce if we attack Mao and Gas at the same time, which the real plan has us doing
That’s fair, it could be a bounce we expect from you. Keep in mind that the French fleet disbands in the fall, assuming it leaves Bre. So if it gets into MAO, it will then vacate by spring
Better to vacate Mao than Gas, I think.
Hmm, i mean if we really think it’s a convoy, disrupting the convoy is a great option. You’re saying i support Bre from channel? And let me see how Italy responds to the message
Yes, you'd support Bre from the channel. and Bel will support the channel.
I also don’t think hitting NAO makes sense. Then we won’t be able to take Lvp next spring
sometimes it's like you don't even read my messages. I acknowledge that. We'd have to wait til fall. I'm making a sacrifice too by convoying to york instead of Edi, and I'm willing to do that because I think it's the right move. Even if there's not a convoy, there's still a chance you fall into Nao which is advantageous.
The way I see it we don't stand a chance unless we can take mao and start beating Italy back into the mediterranean
You didn’t make it clear that Yor was a real move.
I said: "In exchange for doing this riskier move, I agree to convoy to york instead of Edi and give up my build", how can I get clearer than that?
Whoops haha. I’m still in bed looking on my phone and it’s a lot of text.
I know. Sorry, I get wordy when I'm on the war path
It’s quite alright. Do you think it’s worth saying anything to germany? If you’re confident that the convoy is the move, what additional edge do we get by sharing fake info?
You mean to Italy? I do think it's worth it, because Italy will realize that I'll turn to you if I'm no longer allied with him. By reporting the plan, you cement Italy's trust in *you*. If you didn't report the plan, Italy'd suspect you. It also gives Italy a false sense of confidence in what I'll do.

Tentative request: after the stab goes through, do I have your permission to send Italy the quotes from Italy that you've sent me? Italy went to *such lengths* to defend himself and make *me* feel guilty for questioning him, and the sheer hypocrisy of it is so revolting. I want to throw his own betrayal back in his face. I figure he's not going to trust you after the stab anyway.
furthermore, Italy may respond to my plan by offering *you* moves to counter it, and you can bet that the moves offered will turn to Italy's benefit. We can see if these moves keep you away from Mao and Nao, which will further confirm Italy's got his eyes on the convoy
Ok i have to get to campus. Let me send the quote to italy and then i’ll process all this and respond later.
Oh and one more thing: as long as we think the convoy is the real move, we also know that Spain is gonna support Mao, unless Italy is really really cocky. So I'll need to support you into Bre with Paris to make sure you get there. This means Burgundy will have to try for Gas unsupported, but again, if we're confident the convoy is the play i'm willing to risk it
I've told France the new move is to Mao and France confirmed. So, the moves the plan needs from you are:

Eng s Bre-Mao (Bel will support Eng holding)
Pic-Bre (Paris will support)
Nwy-Swe
Nwg-Nao

Let me know if you take issue with any of these, or if you ever hear back from Italy. 
We have a shot that at least one of these moves will get us somewhere. But I recognize this plan is nowhere near as sure a thing as if you just cooperated with Italy. I want to give you one last chance to back out.
Alright I'm online now. Give me a moment to process everything.
Ok, all of this looks good to me.
Great! Note that you actually gain a build with this plan. So even if the move to Nao doesn't pan out, you can just build an army in Edi and use that to take back lvp
Yeah that's what I'm thinking. If we dislodge the convoy, I get two! You really think Italy won't try to snag Por?
Entered moves:
F ENG S Bre - MAO
F NWG - NAO
F Nwy - Swe
A Pic - Bre
If they're convoying, I would bet not. If they're not convoying, then perhaps, but I think an open Mao is still better than an Italian mao. 

Those moves look good! No word from Italy?
From Italy: "Okay, I think that’s the right move. This is the first turn in a while that is fairly unpredictable from my point of view. It would be really great if you wind up with a build."
wait, he thinks *what* is the right move?
I said I'd agree to your proposal but instead move to London and Edi, expecting one of them to bounce.
Brilliant. Let's hope he buys it
He definitely trusts me, which is why I think no support from Spa is a possibility. Like if he really trusts me going to london, why wouldn't he go for it?
Also, I'm really hoping you won't lose Mun. That would cause some problems.
Can you copy in your set of moves just so I can see the summary? If there's any you want to strike from the record out of paranoia, I totally understand.
Full record:
F Bel S ENG

A Bur - Gas

F HEL - Kie

A Hol - Yor

A Mun - Tyr

F NTH C Hol - Yor

A Par S Pic - Bre
Cool. I guess the support in Bel is only relevant if MAO surprises with supporting Bre in or something like that
right and I have a weird bias for having my units *do* something other than hold.
I also wanted to talk post-war relations since you brought that up. My ideal would be total silence to Italy from both of us. As tempting as it is to gloat, Italy will use any gloating we do to convince others on the board that we're schemers, unreliable, sharing intel at an absurd level etc.
We also should start courting Austria once the moves go through
post-stab relations*
we can try to court Austria, but should do so with extreme trepidation lest anything get shared with Italy
Yeah no sharing of specific moves with Austria, at least not at the beginning. But the alliance is natural since I'm moving against Russia and we're both moving against italy. And we really want it to be a solid 3 on 2.
Nicely done. Thoughts on the silence to italy idea?
Also, austria just took a beating
Accurate. We should sent condolences their way.
And I won't speak to Italy
Ok. I won't either. He's going to be sending some nasty-grams our way I'm sure.
yeah if you get a juicy one send it to me!
ugh I'm kicking myself I wish i'd supported Bur-Gas. But hindsight's 20/20
So maybe try to cool it with Russia...I'm thinking we're gonna need to go 4 on one if we want a shot at stopping him
Yeah i’ll try to be amicable with russia. I feel like you’ll have more sway since you didn’t just take his territory
Italy just said “well played”
Well he's correct about that
And I'm trying to make overtures to Russia and Austria right now
Haha yeah. I agree that taking down Italy will be tough even if he’s operating mostly alone.
Italy to me: "Well, this game just got less fun"
Haha. Still figuring out what builds will be. Trying to piece together a plan to get you a build from Italy this year, but it looks like that may be a challenge. We'll have to make a couple of good guesses.
I think your builds are pretty obvious, right? Fleet in Lvp, army in Edi? 
In spring, I'll support Edi into Lvp. Meanwhile Lvp moves IRI with support from the channel and Nwg pokes Nao.
With your permission, I'll move Nth-Edi and then Edi-Cly in the fall. This way we can shove Italy out of Nao come next spring.
I agree with the builds, and I'll review the tactics. We really need an italian disband this year to break the line. With what you've presented we won't get Spa or Mar, and by next spring we may have Italy in Lyo and Wes. Not sure if we have a better option on our end, but I'll keep thinking.
Right I don't think there's much we can do about the south besides get one of us in gascony and put a fleet in Brest and hope for the best.
Nevermind: it's better I think to risk Italy in Nwg, since that's actually not a huge threat. Nwg should go to Edi and Nth should go to Lon. Dammit, we'd be in such a better position if I hadn't been so paranoid that Russia would move to Munich! Then I'd have kept my fleet in Hel
Was just running through some tactics. I think I found an issue, but I want to check with you. Suppose Italy ends up with Fleet in Portugal, army in spain, fleet in lyo, fleet in wes, army mar. I think this is a stalemate line. And I don't think we can do anything to stop Italy from forming it.
I mean you could mess with North Africa from MAO I guess. But at that point we're looking at Tunis as the next build on our front. And that only works if neither NAO nor IRI gets behind the line.
Fingers crossed you can find a flaw in my thinking.
I guess the point is that no amount of cleverness is going to get us those dots until we see disbands (if my thinking is correct, of course)
I think you’re right—if dots is what you’re after, you’re better off stabbing me and Russia than collaborating. But I think you’ll that just getting italy under control takes priority. Russia and Austria might see some dots, but if we do it’ll take a lot longer
I agree i could stab russia with moves on st p or something. I’m not in great tactical position to stab you right now if i wanted to. No question that italy’s the target. But we’ll be dancing with those fleets until they’re off the board from a loss of supply centers. That changes my thinking about our moves a bit.
I know for a fact we can disband at least one of the fleets. I ran quite a few sandboxes in lieu of working today and I'll share moves in the morning.
Yeah if you found one, that’s great. Let me know
woah, all armies from italy. I guess I was seeing things through the lens of the worst he could do to us.
Given that the beta test ends in 1909, what are your goals? Just duke it out until then?
was not aware of that! But yeah, I'll just go down fighting Italy like hopefully everyone else.
That's pretty disappointing this game was just getting good
Yeah admin said this in the general thread a while back. I agree it’s a bit of a shame to see it cut short. But i suppose we’re just the beta testers. I will be glad to be finished though. It was fun, but like WAY too much distraction and stress haha.
Would you play online again after all this?
I’m not sure I would.
I think I would! you're right that it's way too much distraction but, hey, it keeps me off the streets
Hmm something tells me that you wouldn’t otherwise be out committing violent crimes haha. But then again how well do i really know you from playing a lying game. I will say I’d be down to do an in-person one with CS students at some point.
Btw all other powers (me included) will be setting for a 5-way draw this move.
I had been thinking the same thing! Do you know anyone besides me and admin at UMD who plays?

Uh huh...sureee they will
AFAIK there's no drawback to submitting the draw order (if you're ok with the outcome). If there's not consensus, play just continues as normal. Well I think admin' adviser has played. I know [redacted] had expressed interest in playing. Not sure about students though.
And I'm sure I could recruit a couple of non-UMD friends to play.
I'm on board with the five-way draw, by the way. 

And I think there's a couple board game enthusiasts in my lab who may not have played this particular game before but would probably like it...if you don't mind playing with new people
Yeah always down to play with new folks. And I’m down for the draw as well
Reply all to Italy's message: First, if you didn't get a message from Italy claiming to have been sent to the whole board, please let me know. I'm down for the draw that he has proposed. I'd also like to add that I'll be checking the "Adjudicate once all powers have issued orders" box. If everyone does this maybe we don't have to wait until Sunday night to have this resolved! I'm not so confident as to issue a hold for all of my units, but will be submitting for the 5-way draw. Really enjoyed playing with you all, but I'm exhausted and ready to finish and see the stats.
:’( we were supposed to hug it out!! Any idea who wasn’t on board?
Sorry for not coordinating moves. I really thought the game was gonna be over
So did I! And I have no clue who wasn't on board
I guess we try the draw again?? I suppose it’s possible a game could be set up to not support the regular draw settings. I dunno.
Not sure your interest level in the game at this point, but we should at least make sure italy doesn’t win right?
can italy take five centers this turn??
Nah, but maybe admin will be like “oh btw let’s go until 1914 now!”.
Any guesses on who is holding out on the draw?
who keeps screwing with the draw though! Do you think Italy suggested it just to mess with all of us?
oh haha we just asked the same thing
That’s my best guess. He’s kind of the only one with the incentive to keep it going. And with his winning track record, probably the only one who cares enough to be this sneaky
well I'm honestly not invested enough to care if that happens anyway
I’m not very invested either, but i’d rather not see italy win, especially if this is how he did it
well let me know if there's anything you want me to do, then
Ok, will do. We’ve got a day before the next move
I think
Ok would you be up for: Paris support Brest Hold, and then get one of your fleets into the channel? And then don't go to Nth as I'll be moving Nth to NWG and Denmark to Nth to make sure he can't break through in the north? Yor holds?
Pic support Brest hold as well would guarantee that he can't take it from the channel.
Pic needs to support paris but other than that Ok
Pic can't, since it's a fleet.
I'm supporting paris from brest
oh right---ok thanks
And actually can Yor support Wales?
Yep!
Great! Glad we're doing this since I think otherwise italy has a serious shot at 18 by the end of 1910.
Wait I'm actually doing our moves wrong if we want to hold paris. I need to attack Gas from Bre. Otherwise, Eng cuts Bre support, Gas supports Bur to Par. So I'm going to do that instead.
I'm doing my moves wrong*
Par to Gas is a good move paired with that. Cuts support for either the Bre or Par attack from Italy, and the armies will bounce right back to where they came from. Up to you though.
Looks like it all worked. A little surprised about the supported move into brest. Do you want it?
Looking at the board a bit more, we'll have to be clever to keep Italy from any more centers on our side of the board. I think the following will do it: Bre and Par to Gas, Ruh to Bur, channel to MAO, NTH to NWG. We can ask russia to attack Tyr to cut support (Tri is going to fall anyways). I can hold the island as long as Yor doesn't attack me.
The Brest support was just in case Italy moves Gas into Brest supported by Eng. I should have realized that with Lon moving to Eng that move would not have gone through anyway, but I'm not paying as much attention to this game anymore.
And okay your plan seems to make sense but I'll check...
Cool, sounds good.
okay submitted those moves
I'm doing same moves as last time, except for supporting Wales to IRI
Hey there. What are your thoughts on an anti-English opening, like a sea lion, as Germany? If you enjoy something like that then we might make good allies.
Bonjour--not sure what a 'sea lion' is!
It's when a lion is stranded at sea, like in the life of pi.
That was a tiger. Let me know what you'd like me to do--I imagine it involves letting you take Belgium?
Good point. Sea tiger sounds more menacing anyway. 

It all depends on how you like to play Germany and your relationship with Russia. I can be flexible, and if it makes sense for me to have Belgium to set up for a future play then that is good with me.
Admittedly, I've never played this game before! Don't go spreading that around
You sound experienced for someone who is playing the game for the first time- I'm sure few people would be able to tell.
I appreciate that, mon ami!
Nice moves. What are your thoughts on the map?
Well I'm wondering what you're up to in Burgundy, for starters
Haha. I was looking to secure a position on Belgium and it seemed like the best way to do it. Depending on your plans, I could take Belgium with Burgundy, which could set us up nicely to work together
Sorry for the late reply, the bot was down.
I think taking Belgium with Burgundy would be wise
That sounds ominous. What are your thoughts on England
Any plans for Holland? Would you want to support Burgundy to Belgium? It's hard to read you and I'm not sure what you are planning
So much for being wise 😂  😂
Can we have a conversation at some point? I'd love to figure things out with you
Sorry--I was out last night and couldn't answer your questions!

I was cagey because I still have no sense of who to trust and who not to. But I'd like to trust you if you think you can trust me too. I understand if not because of my unannounced visit to Burgundy...I was just attempting to have some insurance in case there was funny business
Thanks for getting back to me- and no worries. Hopefully when the deadline is moved away from midnight it will be a bit easier lol.  To be totally fair to you, you never actually said you wouldn't move to Burgundy. For me it isn't a trust issue but a communication issue, which I think can be easily fixed.
Have you been talking to England at all?
I did: England tried to make a deal with me to take Belgium (I was supposed to support E's move from the north sea while attacking Burgundy), but we both reneged.
I see. I ask since I have a feeling England might be playing us against eachother. He also asked for support to Belgium Lol. For now I'm building armies, but maybe we can get to a point where we can re-establish a border between us.
I'd rather settle the matter of Burgundy diplomatically rather than with force. Any chance you will consider withdrawing from Burgundy?
The one thing I think neither of us can afford is a war of armies. We would be giving away the entire ocean to England's units, and there's an Italian/Austrian coalition growing that will be a concern in the long run
I gotta say France, right now it seems like the best move for me is to work against you so I’m not so hemmed in.
That said, I’m no strategist. What are your thoughts?
Let's say you built armies in Munich and Kiel and started marching in my direction. These armies can't go on water, they can't move past Gascony/Paris/Marseilles as my units will soon be there, and so the only places to go for your armies are Ruhr... and that's about it. Isn't this a huge traffic jam? Wouldn't you be hemming yourself in even more by building armies? That's what I mean by it will be devastating to both of us to get into an army war and let England control the entire ocean. We're bidding over such a small area of land.
One option for we could consider is that I could dislodge your army and you could choose to remove it from the board. That way, you could build it in a place where you might need it more if you are feeling hemmed-in.
No thanks, I don't think that's in my best interest right now
Ok. Sounds like you've already made up your mind about things. Let me know when that changes.
Not sure what your plan is. I'm covering Marseilles, Paris, and Belgium so you have no chance to take a supply center this turn.
The bot was down but I meant to contact you earlier
You put up quite a strong defense against me, which I'm sure was your goal
I was suprised you retreated to Munich over Marseilles that one turn but it worked out for you
I want to help you protect your supply centers if that is alright with you.
Why do you want to help me?
I'm worried about England, and you are frankly one of the only things stopping him from attacking me. I'm just looking at it rationally: what is England going to do with all those fleets? I wish we were able to work something out so that both of us would have some fleets at least. But rihgt now England has 4 fleets and you have 1 and I have 2. And he's going to blow up your fleet in Holland this turn, it's basically a guarantee.
Let's say he gets 2 builds and builds 2 fleets. Am I going to be able to stop him, even if Russia and I team up? He'll dominate the entire ocean.
At that point, it really won't matter how many supply centers I take from you because I won't be able to prevent an English fleet invasion.
I mean, what are your thoughts on the whole situation?
We should talk more. I'm not lying about wanting to help you, but it's hard because you aren't talking to me, and everything you have done so far this game seems to have been against me.
well fat lot of good it's done me. I think you're right about the danger of letting England control the sea. But I'm not sure what I in my current state can do about it
Can Helgoland Blight move to the North Sea? This would cut support, allowing me to take the English Channel.
It could, but that would leave holland undefended
Hmm. That's a good point. And Kiel is probably busy defending Berlin/Munich since Russia is in the Baltic and Silesia and could double team you with Italy. It's funny, there are so many units at your doorstep, but you might end up keeping all your dots this turn.
I assumed you were working with England somewhat after last turn, since it seemed like he could have guaranteed Holland and chose not to.
If supporting Munich is what is preventing Kiel from blocking Holland, I can support Munich
That wouldn't be enough: I need to defend munich *and* berlin somehow and there's no way to do both without Kiel
Yeah, you are right, I can't think of a way to do it either. No worries, we can try something next turn depending on how the moves turn out.
Well. You did well for yourself that turn 🙂. Really impressive diplomacy
I want to apologize for entering Ruhr- I wasn't sure what else to do honestly. I should have given you a heads up and that's my fault. I'm sorry.
And it's ended up being doubly bad as now I'm a turn behind in terms of defending myself with Italy coming after Iberia and all. sigh.
I think we are at the point where we should talk about working together. If you want a decent result, I think your best bet is to work with me.
I honestly do, since I think your growth potential is going to be limited by the fact that we both have way too many armies and not enough fleets. So this means that your growth is limited to Paris/Belgium, and that's if you make it past 4 armies.
What I'm trying to say is that the big winners are Italy and England.
We're the big losers. There's almost nothing we can do. Unless Russia, you, and I plug the holes in our defenses by working together.
Have you talked to russia at all about this?
What would you want me to do this year?
Hi France--wanted to confirm our plan for this season and next: I disrupt Nth support from Holland, and in exchange you'll kindly scooch out of Belgium in the fall (into Ruhr, I imagine)? At which point I'll build a fleet in Holland?
Actually, I'd have to build the fleet in Kiel, I think
1. I have. We're both trying our best to defend ourselves from England- we're too far from eachother for tactical manuevering but so far we've managed to avoid any losses
2. Despite Italian incoming invasion, I am still completely focused on taking the Channel, as that will give me much needed breathing room. If Holland can move to the North Sea, it will cut support and I will take EC
3. I am withdrawing from Ruhr. I know this leaves me open to you taking it back and working with England to capture Belgium in the fall. I can't think of another way to get you a center, so my promise is that if the board doesn't shake up somehow I'll give you Belgium either this turn or next turn on the condition that you build a fleet
That's correct, you can build a fleet from Kiel or from Berlin but not from Holland. You need to make sure one of those is vacated during the Winter phase. Vacating Kiel can be dangerous as England is in Denmark and could in theory take Kiel from you.
I will vacate Belgium in the fall for you. Not yet sure what the best way to do it would be to make sure we don't lose it or Holland to an English fleet.
I know England has their eye on sweden so we'll see how that baltic region shapes up next turn and that will determine where I build my fleet.
it's risky, but I think I'll be safe leaving Berlin vulnerable to Russia in the fall...let me know if you hear/think otherwise when that time comes
Will do. I definitely agree, I spoke with Russia briefly and I believe he intends to leave you alone from now on.
Good guy russia. sorry if you've been watching me type, I've been starting to ask you questions and then confirming their answers for myself in a sandbox! 😂
No worries. Feel free to ask anyhing- though the sandbox is really helpful too 🙂
Okay--real question: assuming you take the channel with Brest an then England retreats to London, aren't you going to just lose the channel anyway?
oh wait nevermind I can prevent that if I keep my fleet in Holland and prevent Nth support twice. But this means I need to move Kiel into Ruhr during the spring to take my sweet, promised belgium in the fall. Picardy will have to support my movement of Ruhr into Belgium and you'll have to disband the unit. That's all fine, right?
BUUUT England could foresee this and support with the london fleet and move with Nth...in which case, at least they lose Nth, I guess.
Great point. I will have to disband a unit anyway in the fall after losing Belgium, so it won't matter if I need to pull it.
Losing the channel might be rough, that's true. Hmm, I actually hadn't thought too much about it. I think if he does that at the very least I can retreat into Wales and threaten Liverpool (assuming that Wales goes to cover London)
Give me a reason to defend myself against Italy. As it stands, I'm just going to let him solo.
What do you think Italy is going to do once he kills me?
Don't you agree that Austria will need somewhere to go with all his armies?
I swear. I'm trying my hardest to work with you.
Look. I will defend myself against Italy. But I need to know that I will be in the draw. If you and England are just going to fuck me from behind, then there is no incentive for me to defend myself against Italy.
Hey, I really am sorry about the stab. You probably won't believe me but let me explain myself:

I knew I was making a deal with the devil when I agreed to help England, but England, Italy, Austria, and Russia were/are basically all allied and I figured it was either you or me they turned on. The turning point was when I realized that after I stab England you might not even hold the channel anyway. I couldn't afford to risk fury from all sides. 

But now I'm in a potentially very good position for you: England and Italy *trust* me. I am in the process of finding out--under no suspicion, mind you, because of our alliance and shared plans--their moves for this season. Once I learn those, I can relay them to you.
Doing so would clearly be in my interest. The longer you're in the running, the longer I escape getting devoured myself on three or more fronts.
If you manage to look just lucky or smart by making the right moves to counter their attacks this season, I can continue to double-agent and help keep you defended and possibly even expanded into England.

I just spoke with England and I can confirm that you will be able to take the channel if you want to--they're supporting me into Belgium from Nth. 

I can't be as direct asking this of Italy, but I'm trying to figure out whether they're going to use the lion's share of their force against Marseilles or Spain. If I can figure this out you may have a better chance of holding.

I'm going to send the info your way whether you believe me or not.
Ok. I get that- I'm sorry for not explaining it well. Losing the channel doesn't matter to me. It gives me excellent retreat options and allows me to defend myself against Italy without worrying about what England is up to.
There's no way Russia is allied with Italy and Austria. Just look at how aggressive Austria is in attacking Russia...
Nothing can be done at this point though. Thanks for the offer of intel- this is basically all I wanted to hear. As long as I have a chance to be in the draw I won't give up and maybe something will shake up and give me a chance to recover
You should work on England- he's not even communicating with me. I must have done something to piss him off. But if he keeps this up it's going to end badly for him too.
For the future, let me know in advance when you are planning something like this. If I knew you were not cutting the North Sea I would have played this way differently by bouncing Italy out of the West Med, and we'd be in a much stronger position.
It’s not that Russia is allied with austria, but Russia is cooperating strongly with England to the point that they don’t even talk to me.
For what it’s worth, I can confirm that Italy’s going to shoot for Spain.
(They meaning Russia. I get kind of annoyed with everyone using “he” to refer to these players)
I am sure Russia is just uncommunicative. Since the start of the game he's only sparingly talked with me
*They've, sorry
Just given that they seem to be fighting in Scandinavia. But you probably have more information than I do.
By the way, what's the plan that Italy and England proposed to you in terms of your units? Are you attacking Burgundy with ruhr and Munich?
Oh that's not a fight that's planned high-fives. At least according to England.
Nope--attacking Belgium with Ruhr and Amsterdam. We're in the process of discussing whether Munich should bother poking Belgium.
Burgundy*
I take back what I said about Italy shooting for spain. I thought it was decided but Italy wants to keep that decision to themself
Thanks. I'm probably going to flip a coin for Spain/Marseilles. Has England expressed any concern over the Italian/Austrian growth? I worry that England has been charmed by Italy. Or maybe they just dislike me that much.
YES! That worked very well. You're getting a build! Please please please build a fleet 🙂🙂🙂
I intend to build a fleet. Are you gonna disband Pic?
woops miscounted
disband nothing
Yep, it got popped since Belgium had nowhere to retreat to.
Neat, bot is back up now. Hmm, maybe it was just the one message that was bugged somehow. Whoops. I'll copy paste it back
What do you want to do here? I am really hoping that we can coordinate something together. I think AI is starting to have some pressure put on their relationship with a greedy Italy. I understand England is in a tough position where their best move is probably to stay put and do nothing, which is always a tough sell (I just wish they would actually read my messages instead of sabotaging my ability to help them fight Italy)
I checked out Italy's history. He's [redacted] from playdiplomacy.com. he's ranked the number one player on the entire site, and that's probably the most popular Diplomacy site of them all
If we don't stop this here he's going to solo. No question.
Sorry for the gendered pronouns- I keep forgetting to neutralize them sometimes since I've played with some of these players before in FTF
Yeah lol. I'm totally fine with England in my territory honestly
They have been fun to work with while it lasted, they seem transparent and honest. I'd trust
Anonymity is tough to keep up with the discord names and the fact that the usernames are in the Backstabbr too. That being said, I didn't mean to upset you if you're uncomfortable discussing that- if it makes it better I have ignored it completely until I recently found out about the published names. It doesn't have to be a discussion point, it's pretty clear by now that Italy knows what they are doing.
Haha. Fair enough, that is true, it is unfair. I'm totally guilty of accidentally assuming masculine pronouns in online games, and I'm working on changing that since it is a big issue. It's good to do as a default and I appreciate that you brought it up. I think Austria, Italy, Turkey, Russia, and I know eachother, albeit with varying degrees of familiarity.
I know you were joking a bit when you said anonymity did you no good in this game, but seriously, I think you are playing great. I would have never guessed you are a first time player. Are you really sweat_smile? You are playing extremely well
Any news from England? I hope that they will consider working to stop Italy
I messaged them but haven't heard yet
Ok here's what I  know:
England is going to keep away from Russia's northern holdings for a while in order to avoid feeding Austria. However, The Norway fleet is headed for MAO for the start of next year, and England is very much still intent on seeing you consumed. Italy has told me definitively which of your centers is getting full force this turn (under some pretense about needing to coordinate so me and England could be more effective) and it's Spain. I'm going to hold and support Belgium and move Kie-Ruh with support.
I'm also going to poke Bur
Thanks so much for the info. Will do. Any chance you go to Tyrolia instead of poking Burgundy? It won't matter for me that much but for you it could save a lot of headache and potentially exacerbate AI tensions
Alternatively a written commitment from Italy not to go to Tyrolia would be smart
I'm not ready for Italy not to trust me anymore. I'll try to see about that commitment though...
That turn went well for you. With Russia out of Silesia you certainly have more breathing room. Only downside may be Italy in Tyrolia, but hopefully they committed to not moving there or at least are aware that you aren't ok with it hanging out there. Thanks to you, Italy has ground to a halt in southern France. I'm hoping we can repeat it again this turn.

You should ask England for Denmark. If they say no, no big deal. But it should be yours- they are the ones that took it from you. And it's significantly hampering your manueveravility and ability to build units where you want to as it borders the extremely important Kiel.
Italy offered not to move into Tyr, but gave a good justification for why they weren't interested in attacking Munich, so I let them.

I just asked England about Denmark. 

As for Italy, I'll have to come up with the right pretense to extract their plans again this turn...maybe you could help me with that? England and me are pretty much in the routine of sharing moves though so you're at least guaranteed those.
Sweet. Assuming England/Italy want you to move into Burgundy, you could pretend to be worried that I might bounce you out of Burgundy and ask if Italy has some moves that can help occupy my units in Marseilles and Gascony.
Any updates by any chance?
I’m waiting to hear from Italy
Any info you think might help me in defending against England and Italy? My plan is literally giving you all my centers while Italy and England get nothing, since I can't defend all three and you are the only one who has been helping me.
I'm assuming England is going all in and moving to NAO, maybe even to Irish and Channel?
Right, England is moving to NAO but otherwise holding everything this turn. No deal on Denmark, unfortunately. Next year will be a play for MAO.

And Italy is deadset on randomizing their move, so I'm sorry I don't have intel for you this time--I did try, though: England (at my suggestion) offered to assist Italy into MAO, but Italy refused.
Thanks
And as for me, I'll be taking Bur.
Darn, that went poorly.
It was a coin toss; nothing you could have done. I didn't foresee (or know about) the move to Naf but in hindsight it makes perfect sense.
It's kind of a privilege getting to watch Italy play, esp. knowing who he is
Yeah for sure. Hey but thanks for all your help. I'd have died a lot sooner if not for you.
It's been a pleasure! Thanks for playing with a newb 😃
If you're having fun, I'd encourage you to check out face to face games in your local area. Online is great, but FTF is really something else 🙂.
Anyway, I'd like to be a part of the discussion for how to distribute my dots. I'd ideally like this to go in a way where it sets up you and Italy nicely to take out England and Austria
I see this game lasting longer if Italy receives as few dots as possible...what's your reasoning for favoring I over E?
I am pretty sure England will stab you once they are done killing me. Italy has Austria to deal with. But England has nowhere to go. MAO is a huge stalemate line. Italy can litterally have a unit in Spain, Portugal, and MAO, not to mention Wmed and NaF, and there is nothing England or you can do to get past that line.
If you and England were going to be a long term alliance, England needed to be in the MAO helping me keep the lines years ago. At this point even if I give England all my dots, Italy has enough units to the point where it's locked up. So that's the logical reason, but there's also the fact that England hasn't replied to my messages in over ten seasons and I have evidence of then working closely with Italy. I think that's a pretty big indication that they will hand Italy dots and have no intention or interest in working with me.
In the end I probably am eliminated either way, so if you want to give England a shot then I can swing that way. But I'd highly recommend against it even though I'm sure you trust England very much.
Okay, I see your point about MAO and England having nowhere to go.
Thanks for disbanding Pic--that helps me out a lot!
Are you speaking with Italy at all about your plans?
Nope, Italy hasn't replied.
Italy just told me as much too. Says they don't trust you...but your track record with me has been pretty good so I want to continue to work with you. 
...and actually, I've been seriously mulling over a backstab of England this turn and I was wondering if you would want to help. Specifically, if you think that MAO is destined for italy anyway, I'll support you into the channel. Meanwhile, I'll move a fleet into Hel and an army to Kiel to prepare to swipe denmark. 
I haven't entirely thought this through, but what do you think?
That sounds great! If we knew English orders, we could potentially come up with an even deadlier plan. I'll have to think more about it, but if England convoys into Brest again, I could move Brest to Picardy to let it in, and bounce NAO. With Italy dislodging MAO, I could then retreat to the Irish Sea and take Liverpool while Paris, Picardy, and Gascony could reclaim Brest. This would have the advantage of not making moves that would give away the stab in the spring.
So I'm Paris in that scenario right? 
And I'm talking with England about their orders right now. They want to take IRI this turn, actually, and want me to support Nth into the channel. If I agree, they actually prefer to move Nwg into Nth than try for Nao. *That's* how unwilling they are to just give me denmark back!
Oh wow, I see. Hmm, well looking at the map I think this would still work. We'd need to find a way to make sure England can't take Holland in the fall (or we could just risk it). I think it makes sense to move Brest to the English Channel instead of MAO so that I have the option to retreat somewhere valuable (like into NAO).
These moves guarantee Denmark but England could retreat to Sweden, which is something to be aware about.
I agree about Brest-Eng. But me and England are still hammering stuff out so it's not final yet...
Breaking news: England has decided (or at least has told me) that they don't want to try for IRI anymore. Instead, they're planning to convoy into Brest or Pic (I'm waiting on their reply to confirm which), poke Nao from Nwg, and otherwise hold/support as appropriate
ugh. sorry but the plan changed again: England is going to poke Nao, but otherwise just hold everything. No convoy. 

I can still move Brest into the Channel if you want, and if you *really* want to irk England you can move to IRI. If I also set myself up for Denmark like I said, I'd have to move Ruhr into Holland to defend there, leaving my southeast pretty exposed, but I think that's a reasonable risk right now.  What do you think?
There's also a nonzero chance that England is lying to me...they seemed pretty suspicious of me this time around compared to previous conversations. However, I'm pretty certain they're not lying about not trying to convoy; they're really insecure about you getting close to the island and not having anyone there to defend it.
You're retreating to Portugal, right? If you can poke Mao from Brest, you may be able to defend spain. And if Italy does something crafty so that you end up falling into Mao, I can fall into/bump England from Brest?
huh. So you *really* don't like England, I guess?
Darn, I missed this message actually, I should have told you what I was planning. I think Italy had Spain guaranteed with MAO-Portugal and Marseilles-Spain with 2 supports. Italy actually then offered me on retreating to the Irish Sea, and in exchange we would collaborate on dislodging the English Channel. I figured it would benefit you as well since this would prevent England from getting off of the island (if they were to convoy to Belgium or something).
Oh good--glad to hear Italy's talking with you! 
...but England could retreat to Pic?
We're not talking much, it was kind of a spontaneous thing. You are right to be concerned about the retreat to Picardy. I'll have to see if that can be avoided somehow. If not, it's not the end of the world. If absolutely needed I can just not support the supposed Italian move to the Channel, which may or may not happen anyway.
Anyway, you also have a guess- kind of. Not sure about what you've told England about the last moves, but perhaps they will use the North Sea to support Denmark to hold, in which case the support can be cut from Belgium.
That was one of a few scenarios I was thinking about. But I gotta say, I don't like the idea of Italy in the channel. I thought *you* were going to be there. Did Italy give a reason why they want it?
Is it okay if I ask Italy about it?
That's fair. It might be best to not ask Italy directly, but that is up to you (just because it seemed that if Italy is actually serious about this proposal, they would want the element of surprise). Italy wants to do this probably because they want to take the gamble and hope that it will shake up the West a little bit. They didn't actually say that, but it is what I infer.
I did end up asking...couldn't handle the suspense! And ever since I heard about it I've been wondering if there's some plotting I could do to turn this to my and your advantage at the expense of both Italy and England. Italy said they wouldn't do it if I didn't want them to...I'm thinking I could demand that they use WES to bounce with England in MAO, which then means that the battle for Spain becomes 2 v 2 and you keep it.
That's really clever! We'd have to hope that Italy wouldn't move MAO to Portugal, but otherwise that works well.
Meanwhile, I could support you into the channel from IRI?
Sure
Does that mean you are not going after Denmark?
Well I'm trying to gauge E's trust of me right now, so I'll see and get back to you
Any news?
Are you going to assist Italy into the channel?
England doesn’t trust me, unfortunately, so I don’t think I can swing anything clever
I probably will. Do you think Italy actually intends to follow through?
I think so from talking to them, but I've been wrong before. I've come around to the idea, actually (a weekend away from this game has cleared my head!). So, should I support Brest holding from Paris? Btw, are you going to let me keep Paris?
Yep you can stay in Paris. If you can support Brest hold that would be amazing!
I'll submit the orders to support Italy into the channel then and just see what happens
I'm sorry, France, I made an 11th-hour deal (literally in the past two minutes) with England and Italy. I really really did not mean to deceive you
No worries, it's the game, and I think you made the right choice. As long as you aren't afraid to lie to England/Italy :). I'm rooting for you to do well this game. Congrats on 2 builds!
Thanks. I've learned a lot from you this game, so thanks for talking with me 😃
Happy to. I still have one dot left, and it looks like fleet Picardy will be the most useful to you, but I can keep Gascony or something else as well. Now that all the French centers are gone, you will have to decide between Italy and England.
I feel like Italy's 10 well-defended units made that decision for me. But even if I change my mind on that, I think Pic would be the most helpful to keep
Me and Italy are strategizing now about ousting England from Brest/the channel. Are you more willing to support one of  those two moves?
Actually, we could support you into Brest, then have you support one of us into the channel in Fall?
Sure
Moving to Brest right now
Excellent! Do you and Italy have any kind of agreement about Portugal?
Well Italy said that they would consider letting me keep it as long as I am useful :)
Well this move definitely is. So I hope they keep their word
Nice turn for you! I wonder what England will do at this point. Based on their retreat, it looks like they could be defending London and Edinburgh so a convoy to Yorkshire or possibly even a move to Norway seem like the strongest plays
Can't believe Italy is going to get into Liverpool.
Anyway, I'm holding in Brest for now, but let me know if I can do something else with that unit.
yeah that's an unpleasant surprise. Has Italy promised you anything? Based on some things I've pieced together, I'm starting to realize the full extent of their manipulation of this entire game. It's honestly kind of unsettling.

...I hope this can stay between us, France, but I've got two sandboxes up right now: one where I put aside my beef with England just to try and get Italy under control, and one where I keep dancing with the devil, which I will follow through with only on the condition they agree *not* to take one of Liverpool or Portugal this year. Neither of these plans has you staying in Brest. If you're willing to do either of those things (help with an Italy stab or more English destruction) at the expense of Brest, let me know and let me know which you'd prefer. If not, well, that may tip the scales to me staying with Italy, because I don't think we can swing the stab without your help.
Happy to order whatever you want.
I know there's no chance for me to live in this game unless someone else wants it. I think I may have some insight that's worth keeping me around. But if it makes more sense for me to go out now, I'll do it.
You're good people, France! And I have Italy's word that they're not taking Portugal anytime soon. Though Italy's word is literally not worth the electric current encoding it. 

What insight are you referring to, may I ask?
Thanks. I definitely don't want to see Italy run away with this game. Hmm, well I guess I may be able to offer insight in terms of helping with orders. I'm sure an EGR alliance can stop the AI. Mathematically we will hold 17 centers at the end of this year, which is usually the magic number to prevent a solo since you need 18 to win. Unfortunately, it doesn't leave any leeway to lose ground anywhere and more eyes on the map can be useful.
I'm assuming Austria can't be turned against Italy. I've tried for the past couple years, even organizing a 3 way convo between Russia, Austria, and I. I don't think Austria is willing to stab Italy.
I know I said earlier that it would make sense for you to work with Italy, though I've admittedly changed my mind. Especially after the last orders, Italy is nigh unstoppable if you and England fight since Italy will soon reach a critical number of units where they can defeat any opponent. Also, there are no easy stalemate lines in the West to stop them anymore really.
It's ultimately up to you though. I could see a scenario where you work with Italy to take out England, and a well timed Austria stab of Italy leaves you to establish a strong defense and get a good draw result
So, that's exactly what Italy has promised me. However, I know for a fact that he's (Italy has lost the courtesy of nonspecific 'they' in my book) been working with England and feeding England my proposed moves for this turn. (Keep that quiet, please!) 
Without revealing that England has been communicating with me, I think I *might* be about to get Italy to confess what he's been doing. He's asked for a half hour to pick his kids up from school (despite my urging that he abandon them and respond to me now), and then he's going to respond. If he confesses, I'm going to side with Italy. In which case I'd like you to move into the channel (where both Bel and Mao [maybe] will support your move). 
If he doesn't, Paris will support you into Gascony. Meanwhile Eng moves IRI and Bel moves Eng. In the north, I convoy to Edi (England's willing to allow me the build this winter) while Eng moves Nwg.
Sounds good.
I'm only talking to you at this point. No info will be leaked.
Convoying to Edi sounds like a good idea. I don't have context on Italy's plan at all, but if I were him I'd probably convoy Gascony into Liverpool
Italy is vile and even if we all die doing it I want to see him minorly inconvenienced. I’d like to move forward with the anti-italian plan and support you into Gas
Done
Since we (me and England) think that Italy's going to try the convoy from Gas to Lvp, we actually think it's better to try and have you disrupt Mao. Eng will support you into Mao. Sorry for the late-breaking change.
Ok
Good game, France! Thanks for everything!
GG! Good luck!
Hello there! What's your general plan for this game? My inclination when I play Austria is to piss off as few people as possible, so I don't plan on making any overtly aggressive moves this turn.
Hey hey!  
Don't really have much of a plan yet - like you, I generally try not to piss off too many people at the start until I get a feel for the lay of the board, so my general decision at start is really just Mos -> Ukr|StP .  Right now my default inclination is to go Ukr and try to get Rum, that may change as I talk to other players.  Happy to talk about trying to take that with fleet or army depending on how spring goes, and certainly not looking to commit to any particular long-term growth direction right now.  That being said, A/R is one of my favorite duos (R/F is up there too, but I don't think I've ever even seriously tried to pull that off in an online game - that's a FtF option where I know the players 😃 ).  
I'm assuming standard Galicia bounce right now. happy to discuss other options.
Yeah, I was figuring standard Galicia bounce too. Keeps both of us honest.
So, here's my pitch: I have been on both sides of the deal when Austria, Italy, and Russia decide that everything would be simpler if there wasn't a Turkey. Every time, things have indeed been simpler for A/I/R. So, whaddya think? Wanna simplify our game?
I literally just told Italy to go after Turkey first. 😀
Oh, fwiw, I'd just as well neither of us tried for Galicia this turn, if you don't mind.
Works fine for me.
They free people of rumania depend on your good will. I assume he's going to force Black, so... That would actually leave him pretty exposed to you and Italy should you so desire.
I certainly won't be helping him take Rum, so I think you can survive this.
Well it looks like that worked great! I'm in a position to force Bulgaria, you're getting Sev back, and you'll be set to keep Rum. I'd appreciate it if you could support Greece to Bulgaria.
Oh, I didn't reply yet, did I?  Yes, I can give that support.
And if feel bad, except Turkey didn't even reach out to me even once last season to try and pitch something like blowing up my fleet to try and work together later on - just completely went radio silent after the setup
Yeah, Turkey has not been handling this fantastically.
I assume the Greece swap wasn't negotiated?
No. No it was not. There are some heated discussions happening.
What are you planning to do?
Well, I was planning on finishing off 🦃.  Tell me what you need.
More specifically, I'm planning to take black. Other than that mostly looking to reposition North
That works just fine for me.
Italy's really angling to get me to attack you. I've put him off from expecting anything this season. FYI.
Good to know.
Welcome back to the land of open channels. Anyway, you know you and Italy don't have to fake fight on my account, right?
The Tyrolia move is to slow down the west, I think.
Sure, I more meant the Greece swap with attendant noise and the immediately swapping info on outside communications. 😀
Heh. So, you taking Ankara?
Planning on it. Then it's mostly a matter of seeing where England/France take their relationship.
Yeah, they seems to have a bit of a clusterfuck going on. Should be fun to watch, at least 😛
Indeed. How do you feel about a good old fashioned bounce over Galicia?
Sure, works for me.
No need to confirm or deny, but I assume your deal with Italy is to convoy Greece to Smyrna.
It's been discussed, not 100% sure if it's happening
For my two cents, it's either that or you just take the second Turkish dot for yourself. I wouldn't want him growing with armies all up along the border.
Italy is starting to be squirrely with me. Can we avoid the bounce in Galicia? I want to get that unit moving to Vienna.
I didn't hear from you in time, so I left the bounce order in place. And I covered Serbia in case you got cute. What do you want to do now?
Yeah, sorry - good call on your part, as I was already asleep by the time you sent that. 
I want to go deal with England now, to be honest. The question is what do you want -you're the one who needs an obvious path to move in.
If you need a sales pitch, I'm not squirrelly at, nor do I tend to negotiate via wild mood swings. 😀
I wholeheartedly support you going after England. I think my most long term success comes from going after Italy, so I'm going to build an army in Trieste and let Italy go get engaged with France while I come after him.
I'm building army Sebastopol for the obvious defense - assuming you do build in Trieste, will take steps to demilitarize that border (no move to Galicia or otherwise in your direction, cooperate on Smyrna, moving units away as soon as possible)
Ball's in your court - I never really understood the strategy of lying on the builds, as there's little payoff to it generally, but we are where we are.  You're well-positioned to make a move either direction, I can only repeat that I'm really only set up to defend against you, and actually more interested in moving North
That was less a lie, and more my having changed my plans to be in line with what I messaged you, but not being able to update my orders in time.
Fair enough.  Either way, math remains the same.  If you want to move on me...well, y'all will win two dots eventually.  If you want to go the other way, you'll get two right away and I'll happily feck off to the North.  To be honest, neither's really a *bad* option for you, given how aggressively Austria has shifted West, so ball's truly in your court.
That was for the terrible pun. 😀
I will note that I'm not even remotely pressing you, and I'm not the one you need to worry about.
You gonna talk to me again at some point?
Yeah sorry about that
Clearly some turnaround needs to be done here. What do you want to see me pull?
I want you to keep whatever you need to start recovering dots.
Now that I'm home, in all honesty, any three units you keep have their own possibilities and risks. I'd assume you'd keep the ones around Budapest, but I can work with whatever you keep.
I think I gotta keep Rum, Bul, and Ser, because they give the best chance of stopping Italy, and they're the ones in positions that you can't quickly get into.
If you could support Rum-Bud, that'd be greatly appreciated.
Absolutely.
Can I cover Rum to keep that army on the front-line?
Sure.
Thanks.  Alright, Bud isn't guaranteed but it's as close as we can come - you have support, Tyr will be cut, and I'll cover the eastern flank
Actually, I suppose I should say, it is guaranteed if you use Ser to support, but in the spring covering Tri may be just as useful.  Not my call!
You know what?  Ignore the question about Rum - I have to cover Galicia anyway.
What's your train of thought on the draw?
I have it set - I set it right at the start of this turn, actually, and England and I both talked about it then.
Seems to me like everyone is in, then. I've got it set, and set for early adjudication.
So, did you veto the draw?
Hell no. I want this torture to end.
And I'm approaching from the point of view of assuming there's no artificial end date. As it turns out, doing this one extra turn is good for me, but in the long run my position isn't going to improve any.
Oh - he can't take Serbia without losing Trieste, btw.  If serbia wanted to support Tyr -> Tri....it probably won't matter, but could in an edge case
Good idea, so oedered.
Er, ordered.
GDI
All supports for bud to Serbia unless you have a better idea.
I do not.
Sorry you died, dude - I did legit try to keep you alive 😃
The effort was appreciated.
Hi England! I don't think we really have anything to talk about yet, but, best of luck!
Hi Austria! Agreed there's not a ton to talk about in the short term,. I'd would like to ask, though, how relations with russia and germany are looking for you.
And best of luck to you as well!
Haven't heard from either of them yet, but when I do, I'll let you know.
Sounds good!
So you built F LON and France built F BRE, eh? Trouble in paradise?
Haha yeahhh. France is the worst. He tried to tell me it was to protect against italy.
Working with italy and germany to stave off france is the goal. But germany is annoyed at me taking denmark. Maybe france and germany are collaborating now. France needs to go though
Hi. Congrats on toppling Turkey! We should have a chat about Russia before our Spring moves.
Whatcha thinking?
Well, we obviously can't help one another directly, but we're both bordering the most powerful country on the board by supply center count.
Indeed, and we're both in position to aim at whittling that count down. Which I'm gonna do.
It's somewhat on us to contain russia. I'd rather us both put pressure on Russia than you put pressure on Italy or I put pressure on Germany.
Italy and I are pretty solid, so, Russia is next.
Great. I'll be fighting against france as well, so I may only be able to hold Russia off in the north.
Whatever you can do, it'll be appreciated.
Are you and Italy still good after the surprise in Trieste?
I'm... Not happy with him. Us being good, well, that depends on what he builds.
Yeah that will be interesting to see. That move actually makes me nervous about collaboration with France. There was a guessing game about where to provide support if he wanted a supply center. Maybe the bump in Spain was arranged.
Yeah, who knows.
Looks like you're sitting pretty with regards to Russia. Will be curious to see where the disbands come from.
Hi. There's some stuff we should talk about.
Whatcha got in mind?
I'm slightly concerned about this being kept confidential.
Can you agree to keep what I say confidential regardless of what I say? (obviously only talking in-game stuff, not about to confess to a murder or something)
Absolutely. What's up?
1) Italy is telling us both that we’re his true long-term ally. 2) Italy is the highest-rated player on playdiplomacy.com . I don’t think either of those things are necessarily relevant this year, but I wanted you to be aware.
Ahaaaa, good to know.
Also, if I'm going to weaken the Russian line to let you in, we'll need to come to some agreements first.
Whatcha got in mind?
Nothing this Spring, so don't worry about anything last second. I'll message back after we see the moves.
Sounds good.
I haven't done all the math yet. Does he have a guarantee to hold Rum? That was messier than I expected.
I don't believe he does. I've got quite a few on it, and the ability to cut a lot of supports.
You'll need to coordinate with Italy to do the bounce in Ser to prevent the retreat there, but yeah I think you're right.
Scratch that, Italy's not in Tri anymore.
Yeah, and I'm retreating to Ser. Thing I gotta worry about is that Boh army walking into Vienna.
Oh yeah, I should be paying more attention. Actually I should probably be sleeping. Yeah that's a risk.
Sleep is a good idea, I'm heading that way myself. This weekend was great but very tiring.
(Btw italy claims he is not, in fact, the highest rated player on playdiplomacy.com, and that this is just a rumor made up by France. But his username does happen to be the same. Not that any of this is that important, but it’s interesting)
Looks like we might have a common enemy in italy. Sorry about the stab there.
Reply all to Italy's message: First, if you didn't get a message from Italy claiming to have been sent to the whole board, please let me know. I'm down for the draw that he has proposed. I'd also like to add that I'll be checking the "Adjudicate once all powers have issued orders" box. If everyone does this maybe we don't have to wait until Sunday night to have this resolved! I'm not so confident as to issue a hold for all of my units, but will be submitting for the 5-way draw. Really enjoyed playing with you all, but I'm exhausted and ready to finish and see the stats.
I got it, I'm in for the draw.
So, did you veto the draw?
No. If you’re asking everybody this, can you let me know what you hear back? I texted the admin to see if 1) draw settings are somehow disabled and 2) if 1909 is still going to be the last year. Part of me thinks maybe italy is turning down the draw. Make people think the game is over and then still try to scoop up centers
I have, in fact, asked everyone. Thus far, Russia and Germany say they didn't veto.
Yeah. I honestly don’t think it’s out of the question that draws are disabled (though i don’t know the site well enough to know whether this would be obvious to us i.e. draw settings disabled). But like if you’re running a study and want to get data, maybe you make it so people can’t end the game early and get their $25 right away.
I *think* it would be obvious? Also, actually, the option to disable draws is very new. Let me look and see if they tweeted about when it was introduced, as compared to when the game started.
Looks like the game was created just after the option was instituted, so maybe it's in place? I think it would probably be more obvious it was enabled, however.
Yeah. Well, I’ll let you know when I hear back from the admin. I feel like italy is the only one with the incentive to not draw. If everyone gets lazy on their moves, he can try to keep scooping up centers.
Well, best of luck holding on through 1910. Seems like you'll make it as long as russia is a friend.
Hello there! What's your general plan for this game? My inclination when I play Austria is to piss off as few people as possible, so I don't plan on making any overtly aggressive moves this turn.
I suggest containment of Russia at the very least and perhaps his destruction
That certainly sounds just fine to me. I think Turkey and Austria can make for a very good alliance - you build a bunch of fleets, I build a bunch of armies, and we crush a bunch of dots.
Ok lets roll I’ll go north for the opening
If you want to contain Russia I am willing to support you into rum if you want to wait that’s ok too
I'd love the support, thanks.
Done
Ok
However nothing bad came if it and I still think we can work together your thoughts?
Hi France! I don't think we have a ton to talk about yet, but if you're planning to go in against Italy that's certainly something I'd like to know.
Thanks for reaching out. How do you generally feel about working with Italy?
If Italy wants it, it can be a powerful alliance, but in my experience Italy rarely wants it badly enough.
That's true, and my experience as well. It's tricky since if he's not going after me or yoy, then what are his plans? If Italy isn't planning to Lepanto then it is worrying for one of us
Well I haven't heard *too* much from Italy yet, but once I find out more about his current intentions I will certainly let you know.
Nice, things are looking up for you with the Russia/Turkey conflict and a seemingly friendly Italy.
Yeah, I'm feeling pretty good right now.
Has Russia been talking to you? I imagine he may have reached out given the builds we're seeing here.
On and off, yeah. We're coordinating some.
Nice. Given England and Germany seem to be working together now, it may be wise to prop up Russia so that they don't take all of Scandinavia and split me up. If you or Italy can spare some armies north that would be great as well!
I'll see what I can do.
thanks!
F Bre, eh? I'm curious what you're gonna do with that.
I figure you can't be too happy with F LON, either.
It's made stranger by how I can't seem to contact England at the moment. I hope to work things out with them diplomatically if I can.
I reached out to England as well, I'll let you know what I hear.
Quoth England, "France is the worst."
(I don't think that, but France said it)
Thank you for the warnings about England. I'm in a much better defensive position now.
What are your thoughts on your relationship with Italy?
Well he didn't tell me about the Tyrolia move, which I'm not, y'know, entirely pleased about.
Italy didn't tell me either.
Good to know.
Damn. The no build hurts
Are you going to do something about Italy at some point? There's no way Italy has your best interests at heart. Italy and England are big buddies and my guess is that Italy has been getting England and Russia together. The amount of trust there when England could have taken St Petersburg and Sweden is ridiculous. That's also why Italy swiped Trieste from you: making builds extremely difficult for you.
I can't hold off Italy for much longer. Italy is going to start exploding in terms of builds very soon and you are going to be taking steps backwards as long as England props up Russia. Shouldn't Italy share some of those spoils with you? I think you should ask Italy for Trieste back or Greece back. You need those builds way more than Italy does.
If it were me, I don't think it is fair that Italy has 10 supply centers and you have 6. When I was trying to work with Italy, Italy demanded I gave him one supply center each year. Looks like they are doing the same with you. I dunno, seems kind of draconian if you ask me.
Maybe you can ask for Trieste back?
There are discussions ongoing regarding balancing things out with me picking up some of the eastern dots.
Are you aware of Italy manufacturing the agreement for England leaving Russia alone in Sweden and St. Petersburg?
That's what I've been told by England, but I'm not sure how much to believe it.
I know you trust Italy a ton and it's clear you have a great relationship. So this must be really hard to hear. But you have to stab Italy this turn or he soloes. Germany and England are fighting and I'm Italy's janissary. No stalemate lines in sight. You won't get another chance after this.
My gift to you is willingly suiciding so that England and Germany have a chance to stop Italy in the West. Please don't waste it, though I won't be there to see it 🙂 .
Good morning!  Best of luck to you, and let me know how we can best avoid any unnecessary and unproductive entanglements.  😃
Best of luck to you as well! I'm likely opening north and I have my eye on Norway for the fall. However, this may be dependent on some discussion with France. Can I ask where you're planning to send your Moscow army this Spring?
My initial inclination is to focus on the South.  I do have to weigh that over concerns of you opening full north, but hopefully we can stay on the same page.  I am of course much happier if you indicate you're going to put a fleet in Nwy.
That's fair enough. I'm talking to France now about Belgium, as my army is pretty useless just hanging around the island. I can't commit to leaving my army off of Nwy just yet. Let me get back to you when I hear from France about Belgium.
Sounds great.  Good luck in your French negotiations!
Belgium definitely on the table but still not confirmed. Germany is acting like a big hot-head btw. Threatening war from the outset. If they don't calm down, maybe we can talk about helping you into Denmark next year.
HI, I may be sending an army to Norway this fall, as it looks like France is trying to go to Belgium. However, I have no intention of going to St. Petersburg. I'd actually be more interested in Denmark, if you'd be willing to support that. This would be on the condition that I would help you into Berlin by cutting support in Kiel.
No worries, mate - we're looking fine, so you do what you need to do 😃
Alright, well we can chat about Denmark next year then.
Hi, sorry to see the trouble with Turkey. Let's have a chat about St. Petersburg and Denmark.
Shouldn't be too much worry 😊
I'm certainly not looking to start any issues with you. What are you thinking about Denmark?
I don't know your thoughts on aggression against Germany at this juncture, but either of us could support the other into Denmark. This would likely cause a disband since I suspect Kiel will be occupied.
I'm not necessarily opposed, as long as my other border gets priority attention 😃
Ok, all things being equal, I'm not opposed to popping Denmark, especially if you use the move to back off one of those northern units.
So, like vacate Norway? Or would you be on board with convoy army to denmark and then move NWG to Nwy?
My preferred move would be Nth to Den, and Lon to Nth, but I understand if that seems a bit aggressive.
I was thinking either nwy to den with nwg going to Norway, or the fleets in, filling North from Norwegian, but either way. I'll be driving for a couple hours, so you have a little time to think and let me know who the mover is.
Back online - final decision on mover?
I'm going for it in fall. Will you still be in Sweden?
I will.  Will you still be in Norway?  If so, I'm inclined to order Swe -> Nwy just to build trust with Germany.
Go for it.  I'll support hold from NWG just in case.
Actually the support hold is unnecessary. Some reason I was thinking Denmark could theoretically support you in. I may do it anyways for kicks.
I wasn't going to point out there was no possible support on Norway.  😀
Hi! Looks like it was a productive Spring for you. Are you still on board to support me into Denmark? I imagine that Germany will be looking for a friend in you.
Yep. Just tell me the mover. I'd somewhat prefer it to be Norway, for obvious reasons
Plan is to convoy norway army to denmark and move NWG to Norway.
Sound good to you?
Sounds great to me. Happy hunting!
Next year I should be able to drop to Baltic if you want to keep pushing
Great. I've entered my moves in. NWG to Nwy, Nwy to Den, NTH convoy Nwy to Den, HEL to Kie. So I'll be expecting Swe support Nwy to Den from you.
(checking)
Yep, order's in the box!
Hi, thanks for the help into Denmark! What’s your plan in the north for this year?
Was debating whether to drop into the Baltic
Any thoughts? You looking to keep pushing on Germany?
It’s a little complicated. I’m starting to worry about a stab from france after the build in brest. If i can focus on it, we’re probably talking getting me into kiel and you into berlin.
Ok, I'll play it loose
I’ll keep you posted if my plans solidify
Great minds think alike! Shall we have a chat before our Spring moves?
Indeed.
So... Moving forward. How do you want to handle this?
Well, what are your intentions on the German front this year?
To be perfectly Frank, looks like my attention is needed to the South. The couple units up north can be flexible in their use.
I'd be happy to repeat the same bounce we just did twice this year. Does that tie up units you'd like to send elsewhere?
Nope, that's fine for this season. We can reevaluate when we see what the rest of the board does
Great, I’ll plan on the repeat bounce this spring, and it sounds like we’ll chat about it again for fall moves
bounce again?
???
Happy to bounce
Sorry, forgot to send earlier
sounds great.
no worries
I would prefer not to repeat the bounce this turn.
Haha. Yeahh, you've left it pretty wide open in the north. What do I get out of showing restraint? Just a less powerful Austria?
I have them stopped dead as long as you show restraint. 😀
Well, you need to make sure Germany doesn't cut support in Sil, right?
Also germany needs to not take that fleet to sweden
True.
I'm also thinking a bit long term for you. That next build probably comes from Germany. But you also need my help to get it. And I'm pretty friendly with germany right now.
To be perfectly frank, I'm kinda happy being a stone wall for the moment. And make no mistake -there's potential for some fun fuckery on my part down south
What's a scenario in which you get a build in the south?
Rum?
If they screw up, yes. More likely the count stays static but they have to keep scrambling and keep their units tied up there
Should be fun!
Looked like fun. I guess you won't be getting that build this year though.
Oh, probably not -they'd have to really screw the pooch to let me build. But it is fun to keep them tied up.
You can prevent a build though. Are you already planning this?
Hey, just wanted to check in and see how things were going. I’ve been enjoying our friendly north so far.
Boring at the moment, but steady. Either Austria will realize his ass is hanging in the wind or Italy will get greedy, and either way the front opens up.
Oh, gdi. Yes, I realize you need the build
Yeah sorry to open the floor to discussion with a stab. I did need the build, and getting two was far from a guarantee for me (even though it turned out that way). I think we have a lot to discuss. How are you feeling about the state of the board?
I'm kinda happy there's finally some movement, to be honest. And Austria's finally responding to messages after a two year silence. I think we're on a stop the leader phase which does have some opportunities for us, specifically
I agree. Running through some tactics, I see that Italy can hold his western dots until he's forced to disband. I think we'll need to see two disbands, maybe three, before we can break through.
Hi. Given that the beta test ends in 1909, wanted to check in about your goals (i.e. thoughts on a draw?)
To be honest, I totally forgot about the end date.  I dunno - the only person who can even theoretically be removed by then is Austria, so we'll just see how that shakes out
Yeah I think he said 1910 if we really wanted. But we are just the beta test. Italy austria and I have agreed on a 5-way draw. Germany wants to play out, but might be swayed if everyone else is on board.
Ah, good point - I have the draw set now.
Me too. Do you know how the draws get resolved? Germany is the last hold-out, and I think she's skeptical that she'll get duped somehow if she sets it as such. I thought it's just that play proceeds as normal unless everybody agrees to the same thing.
That's correct - it will only pass if it's unanimous, or at least until everyone's draw setting is compatible.  For example, if four set it as four way draw, and one set as surrender, that's compatible with a four way draw excluding the surrendering power
Reply all to Italy's message: First, if you didn't get a message from Italy claiming to have been sent to the whole board, please let me know. I'm down for the draw that he has proposed. I'd also like to add that I'll be checking the "Adjudicate once all powers have issued orders" box. If everyone does this maybe we don't have to wait until Sunday night to have this resolved! I'm not so confident as to issue a hold for all of my units, but will be submitting for the 5-way draw. Really enjoyed playing with you all, but I'm exhausted and ready to finish and see the stats.
So I'm guessing it's italy holding out on the draw. I figure he proposed it to make the board lazy about collaboration, and he's secretly still trying to hit 18. Germany and I are collaborating to hold him off until the end.
I concur
And I'm trying like hell NOT to kill Austria in the process
Good luck. Have you heard from Italy at all? He hasn’t responded back to me
Also, are you able to cut Tyr support to prevent Italy from getting to Mun?
(not necessary, but would free up Ruh)
Nope. Haven't heard a thing from him
... Yes, that doesn't materially change the odds I lose Trieste.
Ok, great. I think things should work out with me and germany holding down the fort. He really is close to getting 18, but I don’t think he can quite get there in time.
Hey there!  Just your friendly neighborhood Russian Bear here, checking in and letting you know communication channels are open.  
I assume we're looking at a standard Black Sea bounce, see how the rest of the Spring board looks, and going from there?
Hi yes happy to bounce Black Sea 🌊 what are your thoughts on austria?
Betrayed?  Bewildered?  Wrong answer?
Seriously, no real opinion formed yet.  He was first to reach out, standard fairly neutral greeting and fishing for info, noncommittal on plans  beyond bouncing Galicia and trying not to anger any of his neighbors.  I could go either way on that one.  Life is a little easier for us if we clear that early.
So far the only player that strikes me as a bit of a wildcard is Italy.  I suspect that one's going to move aggressively and erratically once he picks a direction - and that could be good or bad, depending.
Ok bounce in the black and let us assess in the fall
*sigh*. This doesn't seem like the most productive way forward for either of us.
I have been playing a lot of gunboat lately
Take Romania I will not hinder it in any way
Salut!
Just checking in, letting you know the embassy is open, and if you decide to move in a direction I might be able to get involved in, we can probably come to a reasonable arrangement on cooperation.
Bonne journée!
Hey! I'm pretty flexible. Do you like to open north or against Germany?
Not especially - depends on how squirrelly the English player comes off in initial negotiations.  So far he's scanning as moderately squirrelly 😃
Haha 😂. Moderately squirrelly is pretty accurate.
Checking back in before the deadline- it's a bit uncertain in the West, and it would be interesting to hear about your read.
Looks like Italy's gonna head away from you pretty aggressively.  England still strikes me as squirrelly - he says he's super-concerned about Germany, but I'm not sure I'm buying that.
Thanks- that's great to hear and is confirming what I have been gathering. England is especially hard to read and I'm not sure I buy that either, but at least he's also telling me that he is worried about Germany.
Looking good for you since you will be able to pick up Sweden. The lack of northern German prescence might mean a greater opportunity in Scandinavia for you. What were your thoughts about turkey's move to Armenia?
Хрен знает?
I'm not thrilled with it, to be sure.
I am worried that England and Germany are working together, which would be bad for both of us. I wonder if we can convince England to take Denmark? Perhaps by pointing out the threats in the south, and the need to prop you up.
Just wanted to say that your moves this turn were really something. Well played!
You as well. Looks like you have your territory well defended now.
Yeah, for sure. Last season I was in panic mode, but it looks like the tables have turned with England choosing to fight Germany instead of team up with him.
You're welcome on that one. 😀
Haha- thank you! Didn't realize you were pulling strings behind the scenes, but I really appreciate you doing so.
Hey, I needed him focused elsewhere than St Pete, and that was a direction I could help in
👍
I'm not sure what is happening in the West anymore. Some of it is due to the bot being down, but England's moves were pretty shocking to see. Any thoughts?
Not strong ones. I feel like I need to cover my ass, but aside from that?
Yeah, I feel that too. With England withdrawing I'm assuming you are no longer hitting Germany with your units, unless you have Italian help. If that is the case I might also stop aggravating Germany
I am not pressing Germany this turn.
Yeah, that turn went about as I expected.
Should we throw to AI?
Maybe?  I mean, I'm not opposed
I am starting to get frustrated with England, who has not replied to my messages for over a year while clowning around instead of helping stop the Italy Austria alliance. What's stopping me from throwing is Germany asking me not to. And then she took Belgium, lol.
Not sure what my game plan is here. Right now I'm working on getting Germany to build a fleet. My theory is that if Germany can pivot towards England then it may be a salvageable game. Eliminating England ASAP and there's a possibility we can end up in a draw once AI tensions build. But that is impossible if they see a weak north full of infighting that they can just roll over- then they have no reason to ever turn on eachother.
Yep.  I have the south stopped cold at this point - and I told Austria after the Winter turn they would get two and then be stuck - but that means y'all gotta work your shit out and lock the other side, or this is an AI steamroll
And if England starts nibbling from behind, this'll become the easiest throw ever
Hi Turkey! Wishing you good luck this game. Wanted to ask what your plans are for relations with Russia.
Hi well depends if austria is on board brobably containment
That sounds like a good plan. Russia has indicated to me that they're looking south (so long as I don't cause too much trouble), so I would be prepared. Have you all come to an agreement on the black sea?
It’s a bounce in the black
Cool, thanks for the info! Mostly just trying to get a sense for whether you and Russia are in cahoots and preparing to mow over the whole board.
Probably not
Bonjour! Let's talk about the English channel!
Sure! What are your thoughts on it?
I'd like to leave it unoccupied. A fight early on is bad for both of us.
Makes sense. I agree, a DMZ is good for us both. I know that getting armies off of the island is pretty important for you. Depending on how it plays out we could talk about Belgium. Any thoughts on your other neighbors Germany and Russia?
Cool, I'd like to then agree now to a DMZ in the channel through the end of 1902, and we can re-discuss that year about future plans. Are you on board? If so, will your fleet go to MAO?

Haven't heard from Germany yet. I've been honest with Russia about going north, and Russia has expressed some concerns. Doesn't want me to bring my army to Nwy. So, Belgium may be a home I'm interested in if that's on the table.
Wow Germany threatens war with me in the first message haha
Yes, and yes. I will open to MAO. If Russia is adamantly against you putting an army in Norway, it might be worth it to not antagonize him provided that Russia and Germany are not working together. Belgium is definitely on the table
Interesting haha, that is unusual
Yeah, something tells me that player may be a little unpredictable. Sounds good on the agreement.

For Belgium, is there something you would want from me for you to give that up? Are you saying you may consider supporting me in? I don't think Germany will be thrilled about me being there.
Yes, depending on how the spring plays out I may be in a position to support you into Belgium. I don't think it would be conditional on something you do, but rather if it makes sense given the positions in the Fall. Maybe building an army in London rather than a fleet, which likely compliments your goals anyway given the channel DMZ. I think you are right in that Germany would not want to see you in Belgium. If it will antagonize him anyway, it might make sense for us to launch a full out assault in the Fall (this would probably look like bouncing Holland to weaken the German position).
All of that makes sense. Let's revisit before the fall orders then. I wouldn't be totally opposed to the idea of an attack on Germany, especially if he's not willing to engage in any meaningful discussion.
FYI Germany has indicated he is taking his fleet to Holland in the Spring.
Thanks for the heads up! That is an interesting choice, I think it may indicate a Russia/Germany agreement of some kind as it means Russia will be getting Sweden.
Yeah, you may be right. Have you heard from Germany at all? Or Russia?
I have, but nothing much. Seems like they are withholding information from me.
Yeah I'm not getting much from them either. In a remote game it's hard to tell if people are being quiet on purpose or just not making themselves available on the chat. (This is my first time playing remote, so a bit of a different experience for me).
Yeah, that is definitely one of the downsides of online diplomacy. By the way, we're still good with the channel, right? I know you must be anxious if Germany and Russia are not talking to you much, but I have to stress that this is not because I am working with them, and I am not moving to the channel.
I am not going to the channel. We've agreed to keep out at least through the end of 1902, and I plan to uphold this. However, that message did make me a little nervous about your plans. Breaking an explicit agreement like that is cause for war in my book.
That wasn't my intention at all and I am very glad that we are on the same page. Sorry if it came across like I don't trust you: I trust you which is why I hoped to bring up any potential worries before they happen. I could have worded it better 😅 .
No worries. I did click the thumbs up on your message haha. Just wanted to be clear about the consequences of a stab.
👍
Glad to see our commitment upheld. Seems like you may have your sights set on Belgium.
Likewise! The rest of the map has been interesting. What's your read on the map? For me, I think that a supported attack on Belgium is likely the move given the spring turn.
My read: Germany gets a pretty good start, facing only a bit of aggression from you.. Austria and Turkey are likely agreed to stand strong against Russia. However, I think there's a chance that Turkey is sort of overselling their "opposition" to Russia moving to Arm. There may be a juggernaut alliance in the works. Probably no real conflict between Austria and Italy. Maybe they'll bounce in Trieste. Austria has a pretty good start if he can secure Greece.
Do you plan to take Belgium from Pic or Bur?
This is all true. I think I will likely be taking it from Picardy, but I'm not sure yet.
And here I thought Belgium was on the table. I guess it's already on your plate then? What's to stop me from working with the Germans to keep you out?
Belgium IS on the table. But I didn't expect these spring moves, and with the way the map looks, I think you need to convince me that it would be worth it for me to be on 4 with you on 5. Totally different discussion if Italy is in Tyrolia, or if Germany bounced me out of Burgundy
I'm looking at it from your point of view too, I think you have options other than Belgium, right? You could take Denmark for example.
I can't take Denmark by force, and Germany isn't keen on letting me have it. The way I see it you'll easily take Portugal next year (assuming you go Spain s.c. with your fleet). And that line on Pic-Bur-Mar (assuming you build there) would make you really strong. Meanwhile I'm struggling to find a fifth supply center next year. Russia probably helps out germany with Denmark. So I'm looking at St. Petersburg at that point?
What can you offer to balance this out if I let you in?
I've had some time to think about it since the bot was down, and you are right about concerns over fairness. At the end of the day, the plan doesn't matter unless you are on board with it. If you are going to demand Belgium I'd rather support you in than bounce with you.
If you can forgo Belgium this turn, we do have an opportunity to put you into Holland and/or Denmark next year, and that will quickly snowball into Scandinavia, Kiel, etc.
You're suggesting I get a fleet in NTH and HEL? I think that's the only way to make that work. I would want no fleet built in Bre and our DMZ extended through at least the end of 1903. And probably one other country on board with the takedown. If we're stabbing Germany we should make sure she's taken out swiftly.
I think that's the best way to do it, yeah. I agree to no fleet build in Brest and an extension to our DMZ to the end of 1903. The one thing I cannot guarantee is another country involved in the take down, but the best suspects would likely be Russia followed by Italy.
Yeah, I was thinking Russia. This may be something to talk about next year, as we're running out of time here.
Cool. I am happy to broach the subject when we are ready to. Especially if this turn goes well, he may be more inclined to help next year.
Hmm what if germany bumps me in Nth or HEL?
I was thinking this, and if you supported yourself into the North Sea through Norway you would just have to worry about being bounced out of Hel, which I think would be highly unlikely unless the plan is leaked. But the other option that is perhaps safer would be to move to Skaggerak, which Germany can't bounce
I really don't think it's that unlikely. That Holland fleet has two places to go, and I expect it to move. Assuming a build in Kiel, Germany can bounce in Holland to block your entry. Also, I was planning to bring an army to Norway, so I wouldn't have the support to the North sea.
This is too big a risk for me. My preferred move is to Belgium. I understand this may warrant doing a couple of favors for your next year in return. But I just feel too exposed otherwise. I'm about to head out for the evening and I have my move set for Belgium. I'm hoping for your support into there, but I understand if you can't provide it.
Ok. What unit is moving to Belgium?
The fleet
Ok. And do you know what Germany will do with Holland this turn?
Interesting
Yeah, i actually botched my move because i forgot to click submit in the browser :/. Not that it would have made a difference. Hope you’re enjoying Belgium.
I didn't expect to get Belgium. I incorrectly inferred from all the information I had that Germany would support you into Belgium and tap Burgundy, so in order to not lose the support I decided to make Burgundy the mover.
I mean. If anything, you are in a better position for not having moved there. I'm surprised it was a misorder. You've successfully put Germany and I into conflict and can pick off the remains.
Another note. I would have put you into Belgium without hesitation if it was an army OR if I knew that Germany was not planning to support you in with Holland.
Yeah i’m not really buying that i’m the big winner here, so you can save your breath. If you want an ally against germany, I’d like to start hearing some ideas about what that relationship looks like.
Not saying you are the big winner, I'm saying that your misorder was probably a good thing. Before we get into the details of an alliance against Germany, I think it's worth noting that the AI alliance is going to absolutely roll over Russia/Turkey, and so if you take Russia's dots that are easy to take, I think it will be helping Germany/Austria/Italy more than it helps you.
I really think that we should get Russia on board, and it should be super easy to do. Just say that as long as Sweden helps you take Denmark, you won't take StP or Sweden for the time being. We could even put Russia into Denmark.
I dunno if we actually have so much to work together on. If you build fleets and attack the coast, I'll be distracting all his armies. I need to devote all my resources to containing Germany's armies anyway. I think you guarantee Denmark next turn if we're clever about it.
If Germany builds Fleet Kiel, we can support a convoy into Holland. But I think he'll be building armies- that's just intuition, I haven't been able to reach Germany and he's hard to talk to.
Long term I think this looks like a Russia holding off Austria/Italy with Turkey being lepantoed, and then if we hit Germany hard with Russian help then we have a good shot of making it to the midgame and preventing AI from 2-way the board.
Ok I'll respond over a few messages so I don't kill the bot.
I agree Russia and Turkey are in trouble, but I think Russia is more vulnerable. I actually think it's possible that Turkey and Austria are friendly. Maybe the lepanto will be set up but won't come to fruition. If I were to add more pressure in the North, I think it's a really bad time for Russia overall. This gives me some leverage in negotiating with Russia.
I agree on our limited opportunities for direct collaboration next year. However, I'd like to hear what your builds are going to be. A fleet in Brest would make me worried about you and Germany collaborating on an invasion.
How is denmark a guarantee when Germany can support from Kiel?
Ok I think that's all of my messages for now.
It's possible, but I think Austria and Turkey are not friendly given the fact that Austria did not move Serbia to Rumania and Turkey tried to support that move. Russia is definitely still in trouble, though the target might be Turkey first.
I have to build armies, no fleet in Brest.
Denmark is a guarantee if you can get a fleet into Skaggerak and have Russia support you in. It then becomes a 3V2
You could even do a clever tactic with Russia moving to Baltic, you moving to Sweden, and Skaggerak/north sea. Then it is a 4V2
Ok so guarantee based on Russian collaboration. So you don't think Russia and Germany are friends anymore? I suppose they don't have many favors to offer one another
Yeah I think that they are not working together but are simply coexisting
I'm building a fleet in London. I hope that doesn't raise any alarms on your end. But if you were to build a fleet in Bre against your promise, any other build would leave me in bad shape. I know I'm being paranoid, but I'm more comfortable with that build
Ok. I don't get why you think I'd build F Brest, but at the very least I appreciate the heads up. At some point I'd like to see you make a decisive move. So far it seems like you've been trying to make moves that both Germany and I agree to.
You could break  DMZ in the channel and coordinate an invasion with Germany after building a fleet in Brest. By building in London I can do everything I might like to do eastward, and also i could respond better to a worst-case scenario.
And what would have been my decisive move so far? A bump in Denmark? You were going to support me into Belgium so why would I have done that?
Sometimes the less options you have the better off you are. A lot of diplomacy is signalling.
I mean, my thinking process last turn was wondering why you didn't go to Denmark. My conclusion was that Germany was probably supporting you to Belgium. I'm just telling you the vibes I'm getting from you
Germany "was" supporting me to Belgium and then didn't follow through
That's really interesting haha
Yeah so here I was thinking I had it in the bag. And then I first realized I flubbed my move and felt like an idiot. And then I looked closer and felt like an accidental genius.
So back to signaling. You backed out of your, admittedly, vague and implied agreement to support me. What signal does that send to me? Are you saying that you're coming for me? That I can't totally trust you?
Meanwhile, I've been totally honest with you for the sake of building trust and a good alliance. And you're going to complain about MY duplicity?
So, I know this is a touchy subject, so I want to approach this delicately, but to be fair I was still deciding whether I would support you or not when you logged out for the night. I don't want to devolve this into "what about when you did this thing that wasn't the best signal," but one of the things for me was considering why you weren't willing to move to Denmark. Sure, you want Belgium, but what does that mean for me when you want to put a fleet in Belgium and not an army? What is the follow-up play?
I am not complaining about your duplicity. I'm complaining that we're missing opportunities to make strong progress because I think you aren't committed to working with me, but you aren't committed to working with Germany either. I think you would agree that had you worked with only Germany from the start, or worked with only me from the start, you'd be in a much better position, yeah?
Yeah, that's all fair. The timing thing makes remote play kind of weird when there's a lapse in communication before an important move. We didn't really have a chance to talk about the fleet vs army there.
But I don't get why you don't think I've been working with you. You proposed two possibilities: Belgium or Holland/Denmark in 1902. I expressed my preference after raising some concerns about Germany's ability to counter Holland/Denmark. You agreed to help me to Belgium.
If you think commitment to a sole country is a good strategy, why haven't you followed it? Would you agree that I've been more committed to working with you than you have with me? That's pretty clear from your moves last turn.
All great points- and I agree with you on a lot of this. I was very willing to support you to Belgium, but I should have made it more clear that it needed to be an army. I do believe commitment is a good strategy, which is what led me to some admittedly anti-German opening moves. I'm not saying you have not shown commitment, after all we have an excellent DMZ in the channel, but it does bug me a bit that I cannot identify something you have done to antagonize Germany.
Well what would you like me to do to show this antagonism next year? Make the goal to secure denmark?
Yes- I would very much love to see that. And the best part is that you get to see my super friendly builds before you decide on anything.
Alright, this sounds good. Let's reconvene after builds then? That's Monday at noon right? It's probably time for me to get back to real life here haha.
Sounds great, me too haha.
Thoughts on builds?
Yours were indeed friendly, which I appreciate. Germany's were what I expected. I thought Russia might have build in St. P, but I guess there's enough going on in the south to warrant the Warsaw build. The italian naples fleet is consistent with the lepanto, but then again what's the alternative build? Army in Rome? Also, I wonder if Austria-Italy are eyeing Munich this year.
I have similar thoughts. I think that Russia and Turkey are both in a weak spot and all the evidence so far points towards them getting involved in a long and drawn out conflict. I'm sure Russia would have loved to build St Petersburg but couldn't afford to. Now, he is pretty much completely under your good graces. Austria and Italy may very well team up to take Munich.
Germany's builds have come out to be very anti-French, so I am sure you are happy about those as well. It comes at the cost of cutting down the amount of options he has significantly. What do you think Germany might order?
Trying to get a sense of the german plan now. I feel like germany has to play defense, unless they did something like Mun to Ruh to support into Bel or Bur to Gas to put pressure on Bre in the fall.
Yeah, I do to. I was thinking that my best play might be to ignore Burgundy and hope it holds and instead go for something annoying like Holland or Ruhr, which would leave him to either withdraw to defend or leave himself prone in the North. Of course, it could backfire if he's thinking the same thing and ends up in Gascony.
I'm trying to reason through how that plays out. Suppose germany supports Bur to Ruh with Bel. Then you can't penetrate right?
Yes, if he moves Bur to Ruhr with support I can't get in. But it would also mean he's out of Burgundy, which is good for me and means if I retake Burgundy that I can start applying pressure to Ruhr and Munich
If he moves Kiel to ruhr, he leaves all sorts of things completely exposed like Denmark. And if he leaves Munich he leaves that open as well
Yeah, germany is in a tough spot. Any word from Italy in all this? I'm guessing the lepanto is the focus, but a move to either Pie or Tyr would be kind of taking a side.
True. He said he was thinking about it, but not sure how much I can trust that. He'd certainly want to obscure moving to Piedmont if that is his plan.
I know channel is tempting. If you think it might work, I'd totally support you to Holland, or I can tap Holland to make sure it can't leave by going to Helgoland without losing it. Moving to Helgoland or Skaggerak yourself can also be a strong play, especially if Germany thinks you are on his side. A move to skagg can be explained as a move on Russia and a move to Helgoland is deadly if it succeeds
Pinging you since deadline is approaching
whatever you decide, Don't break our DMZ in the channel. It's not worth it, I guarantee you that
The DMZ stands. I'd like confirmation from you that it stays through the end of 1903.
Confirmed.
Hopefully that got to you on time 😬
Yeah, I'm here. I'm moving to Nth and Hel, holding in the others.
I'd like one of Holland or Denmark this year. Both would be nice but maybe not feasible.
Let's see Germany's Spring moves and restrategize.
Sounds great!
I will go to Ruhr then to apply some pressure there. Hopefully I'll make the right guesses when it comes to what Germany will do with burgundy. I believe that we can get you Denmark or Holland but it may require some clever manuevering in the fall.
Are you self-bouncing in Gas to prevent the move there?
That's a great option. I might change my moves to that actually. I have something more risky in mind at the moment though
Nice, that worked out really well actually. Well done on taking the Helgoland Blight! That was a great call, and it means we can guarantee Holland for you next turn. Burgundy might retreat to Marseilles which is annoying, but manageable.  Or it could retreat to Munich. Very interesting that Russia made an aggressive move towards you.
Nah, that was planned. Russia's trying to keep good graces with germany before helping me to denmark in the fall. I can't do this if I'm going for Holland though.
I'm a little surprised austria and italy are totally staying out the fight. I guess they're really going for turkey.
Even better! If Russia is helping you with Denmark I can apply some pressure on Ruhr, and cracking that key position means that on the next turn we start threatening home centers like Kiel and will be in excellent shape to tackle Holland on the next year. Depends how much you trust Russia- seems like he's been radio silent for me, but then again we don't have a lot to talk about.
Yeah the moves in the east are pretty crazy actually. They are going hard against Turkey, and Russia made some excellent moves it looks like so Turkey is in a very tough spot.
Agreed we're in good shape. Though I imagine after these moves germany will make a hard play for russian support. If I can indeed trust russia, I'll convoy an army from Norway to Denmark and cut support from Kiel with HEL.
I wonder if there's anything to offer Russia to sweeten the deal?
Great points. I think Russia may plan to further develop in the south, especially if he and Italy work something out against Austria, or if Austria and he work something out against Italy. If that's the case, he may just want the peace of mind that you are not going to attack him for a while. Otherwise, probably a German dot if he plans to play in the north.
Looking back at the map, probably Berlin would be the best bet for a dot offer since Russia could take that with an army (after traveling to Prussia/Silesia from Warsaw) or with the fleet in Sweden (by traveling to the Baltic first).
Yeah that's what I was thinking. Russia seems fine to support without it.
Poor germany. She said she's a first-timer.
Indeed. Though, I remember the people who I played with in my first few games were more than happy to introduce me to the game with some brutal stabs 😂
Nice, that went well
Sorry for the late notice. Just a heads up that I plan to build a fleet in Brest but will park it in the MAO as a deterrent to Italy
Can you explain why you didn’t build it in Mar?
Yeah, sure. I couldn't build it in Marseilles because there would be very little I could tell Italy to persuade him that I wasn't planning to attack him with that build, even though that isn't my intention.
What's the plan on the German front? Maybe we can get creative with the moves in a way that gets both of us at least one dot. I'm not holding myy breath on Ruhr, so I think the best play might be to send Belgium to Holland with support from the north sea while Denmark hits Kiel with support from Helgoland. If Germany makes similar moves to her last turn, we would pop both Kiel and Holland and would guarantee Munich/Berlin for next year. If Germany supports Kiel instead of moving to Ruhr, then we would guarantee Kiel in the fall as I'd walk into Ruhr and we would have Ruhr, Holland, Helgoland, and Denmark for a 4V3.
Interesting to see you in the English Channel.
So...
You want to leave the channel? I can leave you alone so that you can do that.
Not sure where all of this is coming from honesty. I know you feel bad for Germany since it's her first game, but for all you know she could just be lying about that for an advantage. If that's why you aren't talking to me, then I'd ask that you consider playing the board and not who you think everyone is.
Based on the [redacted] profile, this is her second game on Backstabbr. Her moves have been tactically excellent.
Test
Given that you are still submitting orders, it seems like you are reading my messages and choosing not to respond?
Give me a reason to defend myself against Italy. As it stands, I'm just going to let him solo.
Look. I will defend myself against Italy. But I need to know that I will be in the draw. If you and Germany are just going to fuck me from behind, then there is no incentive for me to defend myself against Italy.
I know you are upset with me. We can fix this, but I need to know why.
Italy is the highest ranked online player on playdiplomacy.com. They will solo if we don't stop them now. Once Italy marches through France they are just going to continue onwards and attack you and your friend Germany.
Whatever Italy/Austria told you about me and what I've said is a lie. You're being stringed along and they will kill you as soon as they kill me. Their entire goal is to get us to fight. That's why Italy keeps trying to get me to go to the North Atlantic Ocean and why they constantly told me to take English Channel, which I ignored.
Why do you want to kill me so badly?
Whatever I did, I'm sorry.
I can stop Italy this turn by the way. It's pretty easy since Italy let me into Marseilles, I can support the hold in Marseilles and Marseilles can support MAO to Spain SC. It's impossible to breach, I've checked it, and I can keep making those orders for years and years. You stabbed me in Spring 03. It is Fall 05. I think that you, Italy, and Germany are highly underestimating my ability to survive against your onslaught. You sure this is the game you want? Slowly whittling away at me until I die? Instead, I propose that we let you into the Mid Atlantic Ocean and that you help me defend Italy. I can send you past the MAO into West Med, where you can start taking dots like Tunis or Naples. We wait until AI crumbles, and you have an excellent game where you top the board.
Hey. Want to talk?
Old friend! Sure, why not?
Awesome. I'm reaching out because we're entering the late game and I think Italy is making a push to solo. I think it may be time to take Sweden/St Petersburg and get Austria to turn on Italy
I'm just one unit so I can't do much unfortunately, and likely will be soon eliminated. Maybe you can still turn the tides? I wonder how you feel about Italy after this last turn.
Yeah it was a pretty brutal stab from italy. Would be happy to see him go down. Do you have thoughts on your remaining unit?
I would be happy to use it however it would help
Assuming that you and Germany are getting back together again
My ask would be to attack Gas
Hi turkey, how do you feel about your neighbors and playing turkey in general? Once you break through the Balkans and blow past 4 supply centers you can have an explosive game for sure
Well yeah depends on the neighbors
Any additional thoughts after negotiations by any chance?
No not yet everyone seems rather tepid
Yeah, that's true.
Howdy Germany
How’s your early game shaking out?
Not so bad. Yourself?
Hey Italy! Thought I’d reach out and say hello. I’m excited for this game!
eh I mean Im fuckin italy
how do you think its going hahaha
Hahaha yeah. Germany isn’t much better
I think nonagression for these first few turns makes perfect sense?
Me and you?
perhaps obvious but I thought worth saying it
yeah lol
I’m probably down. Tomorrow morning I’m going to think through my strategy a little more before I commit to it.
Hokay, no worries
I go off to work and have no cell phone use starting at 730am just FYI
So don’t take lack of communication for hostility lol
Have you talked to France much?
Are you EST?
Yah est
And no; have you?
A very little bit
I’m east coast too, DC. From Philly originally
I’m reallll worries about that dude
What’s France been saying to you?
Same dude.
Basically he dived right in no small talk or pleasantries asking me to bounce bur
Idk how he is in person but he’s pretty blunt virtually lol
Yes. What did he say to you?
Nonaggression in piedmont
Hahaha yeah he kinda skeves me out
I’m keeping my options open for at least the first year but I’m pretty down to go after France
And  yeah let’s do the non-aggression for the first few turns
Word to both
Dope
Let’s get dem first few builds then revisit the topic of le France, honhonhon
HAHAHA sounds good
Hey Italy! I wanted to take your temperature on your plan for this turn
Hey!  I don’t honestly know just yet!
Was your bounce with France on purpose?  Or accidental?
On purpose. He asked me to bounce. I said sure to be nice and to deter a potential excursion into Mun
What’re you thinking for next turn?
I don’t know for sure. Do you trust Russia?
I’d like to take Hol but I want even more to protect myself hahah
He said he wants to go north in the only message he’s ever sent to me...which, ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
Man, I have had like zero interactions with that guy
Are we ready to talk France?
Sure
What’re you thinking???  I’m skeptical of France, they’re being pretty taciturn
Yeah I don’t know! I mean the guy means buisiness. Basically between Russia, England and France I need to pick two to ally with and total war the other
He’s getting hella builds next turn, and then he’s going SOMEWHERE
I mean...I dunno if you can trust someone being so monosyllabic lol
And it’s not at England, and it probably ain’t at me
I mean, I’m ready to be a junior partner in mission “put some heat on the frenchies” if you’re down
I could be down, but I want to wait and see if he actually goes after England or not
What are your plans with Austria?
I dunno man...I’m really tethered to h m rn in part bc France is hella unreliable
I don’t love it but I don’t see a good alternative
Yeah I like Austria - we’ve talked a lot. Don’t have anything formal worked out but you two are the two I’m closest with.
What’re your plans with Austria?
Feel bad Russia got wrecked
I like him too, I just don’t like being so dependent this early lol
But if France isn’t going to be my friend, I sure as shit need Austria to be
Yeah but if you have to be dependent on someone he’s a good dude for it
Yeahhhh Russia’s in some trouble lol
That’s fair!  He is competent and responsive!
He had a real rough go of it
I’m guessing you’re gonna get all up in Russia’s business?
I feel bad for bouncing him in Sweden, but I couldn’t trust him with two units crouching in on my border
Why didn’t he move into Berlin???
Perhaps. Maybe not right away. Let him fight it out with Turkey and focus on making sure England or France don’t get too strong.
He told me he wants to focus on the south
I honestly didn’t trust him but then switch from moving to Ber to Ruh at the last second
Austria confirmed that he told him the same thing
Hey- have your thoughts changed at all?
What’re you thinking re: France?
I think england and France might be working together
The bounced the channel
The Franco-Anglo alliance is worrying. What’re your thoughts on the coming play?
I mean, if you’re worried about them teaming up, we could go joint against France...I’m game to try it
I literally don’t know but they’ve been suspiciously silent. It looks like it’s Italy Austria and German standing together
That worked out irl right?!?  Second time’s the charm!
Nice work with burgundy my dude!!!  Can you support me into Marseilles next turn???
I still have no idea what England and France are up to...
Then I can support you into France further using Marseilles as a base to support your advances.  Lmk!  Looking forward to talking this through.
Hey amigo, you around at all?
Yeah sorry on a work trip
No worries man!  If now is good to talk lmk.
Not now but soon
Rgr, just lmk.
Can talk now
Updated my orders to support you
Ok- so I’d really like your support for my army in piedmont into Marseilles.  Thoughts?
Already did it
My man!  Rest assured you’ll get plenty of the France pie too when his house starts to crumble.
Anything I can do for you in the here and now tho?
Yeah. I’m more worried about the limey brits rn
Let me look at the board but I don’t think so
I think he’s sympatico to our anti-France agenda...he said earlier he’s been trying to reach you.  I bet he’d be down to discuss!
And ok just lmk
He’s a little salty with me for the Belgium thing
Mhmm yeah I see that.  But idk if he’d be salty enough to ally with France after last turn...
Do what you want, but my unsolicited advice is to try to work out a compromise- he could really give you a bad day if he feels like it.
Yeah. I don’t want to fuck him or Russia but it would be silly to not take a SC in Scandinavia.
Russia is very weak, england is strong at ultimately a long term threat to me.
You ain’t wrong!  But it might be to your advantage to find a way to live with England for at least the next few turns, imho
What does that look like?
My idea is to enlist Russia to support SKA into Norway.
Promise russia non aggression, so I can focus on england and France.
Take the North Sea last year and begin my land invasion.
So if I’m you I do different- I knock Russia and France out, THEN hit England if that must happen
How do I benefit from letting him get stronger or even survive? I don’t see it. Germany wins usually through an early england knock out, usually allied with France.
I mean, it’s England’s call here, but if I was him I’d just want a) not to lose builds and b) not to lose my foothold on the continent.  Maybe you can offer him that, maybe you can’t.
How do I benefit from helping him tho?
I just think England + France is too many fish to fry, even with my help, but eh, what do I know, it’s your call
That’s my question. I just don’t see it...
You get France out earlier- and get builds from that
That’s why you want to work with England in the short term IMHO
He’ll want Paris
But I won’t get builds from France is the thing
I don’t believe for a second I’m going to get the last one on the coast of the English Channel, or what something in the Iberian peninsula?
You want mar
I just don’t see how I benefit from working with england?
Other than he seems like a solid dude
I think if you’re assertive and you play it right you can get plenty
You hold the cards here; he doesn’t
Thatcsaid, it’s your hand to play
Yoooo there’s no way you can help England take Paris???
Unless I switch bur to supporting him
He asked me and I told him I’m already supporting you
Are you going to take Smyrna?
I’m attempting a deal with england right now.
Yeahhh he may just be out in the cold this turn
Yeah plz still support me to Marseilles obviously lol
England may be?
Yeah
I mean aside from the fact that you promised to support me into Marseilles, it obviously makes more sense for you to help me out than England
Of course
Yeah England is telling me y’all couldn’t reach a deal
Bummer, but I get it
I can’t agree to a deal where he keeps the North Sea. I just can’t have two armies sitting around doing nothing to be this guys friend.
Fair enough my dude
Did you know Austria is apparently one of the top ranked players in the world?
Lol yeah
Wild
How’d you get roped into this game?
A friend of mine is doing this study
Hbu?
Same lol
With an all out war with england breaking out things might get hairy
Yeah
I want to avoid that at all costs
But you’ve got to play your game
What’s your long term plan? Maybe you can help mediate.
Ugh so I’ll tell you the offer I made him
Ok man- this is what I’m gonna propose- if you attack Paris and I take Marseilles- and I mean, what else are you really gonna do with that army?- I will fight like hell to give you two builds during france’s collapse
Like, imho we need to separate North Sea from The France Question
If we don’t steal a build from France here we waste valuable time
France doesn’t threaten me directly tho. I would probably be allied with him if the guy was more chatty.
Eh if he decides to make moves he could threaten any of us
And that’s the thing- he’s not talkative or communicative.  Ergo, he is a Bad Ally
Talks breaking down between me and england almost guarantees France the channel. I offered an armistice in the North Sea (no fleet there) which would give us bother protection.
Can I mediate between you two?
What is this North Sea dispute?
We are talking about an armistice now, talks are being reopened.
Rgr, I stand ready to support
After France, what’s next?
That’s a big question my dude, and I’m open to your thoughts
I kinda want early game to shake out before making tough decisions
Understood. We have to see what this Anglo-German alliance holds.
I’ll just say that i consider you my close ally and have every intention of finishing this game that way.
Don’t fuckin tell him this- but you are a closer ally than England lol
I mean same bro
Did y’all make a deal?
Like it’s not inked but I just changed my orders based on the tentative terms
I feel like it’s coming together, but it’s not final
Rgr.  I mean my priority is helping us stay cohesive to beat France- and taking Marseilles lol- so lmk how I can support y’all in figuring something out.
Happy to offer to drive to the door of whoever breaks and alliance and punch them out  irl, just saying lol
“Meet me in Temecula bro” https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.sbnation.com/platform/amp/lookit/2014/12/26/7449927/snottiedrippin-temecula-christmas-twitter-fight-kobe-bryant
Lol
Excellent dude.  Thank you much.  Let’s go get you some of those France builds.
Of course man. Glad I could help!
Yo you see that order England gave in Picardy to support a Paris attack on you in burgundy?  I think he fucked you.
Or tried and failed any way. Wtf was that.
Yeah maybe France just didn’t follow through...either way, doesn’t seem like the kind of order you give accidentally.  Let’s check in with England, see if he has a good explanation, but I’m not optimistic.
Yeah and here I fucked Russia thinking this is the beginning of a great Anglo-German team..
Imho- we need to put Russia down ASAP so you can focus on this emerging England/France nexus.
I mean we still have good odds if we’re up against an Anglo-France team, we’ll just need to work closely.
We should talk builds when you can.  Idk if I’m building army or navy, but you good with an agreement on no Munich/Venice builds?
Oh no I was gonna build an army in Mun
But he’s literally just there to support me into Warsaw
Yeah england we’ll see what he’s really up to this year
Why no army in Berlin?  Just as close to warsaw, protects you against Russian navy fuckery
Or were you gonna army in Berlin also?
Yeah doing both. My Berlin army might get bogged down with that pesky ruski fleet
I really don’t need a third fleet
Ahhh that’s fair.  Guess I gotta trust you here.  Np np.
Russia needs to die already lol.  I feel bad for the guy, but it’s curtains time.
Yeah you’ll see next turn I’m not going after you
Yeah it’s really sad. I haven’t had the heart to look at whatever he sent me :/
Literally just have an unopened message
Lmk if you want any advice on France...if you got it covered, np- just want to support.
Sure happy to listen to advice
Sorry, away from my phone all day- mountain biking + swimming hole (I’m on vacation rn)
Same lol
We’ll work trip but same difference
Lol where to?
I mean, you may already be thinking this, but you gotta get all those armies out so they can all play a role in attacking France and England.  With all of them together, and support from me down south, you’ll be in a good position imo.
Charlotte NC
Oh cool I’m in Colorado rn
Do we need to talk about anything?  Anything I can do for ya?
Hey my dude, anything I can do to help move things forward against england/France?
So I want Paris
Word.  I want you to have Paris!  How can I help!
Probably will have to wait til next year tho. I’m gonna move in deeper into France to support my guy in Paris next spring.
Basically just don’t bounce me out if Gus
Thanks man!
Yessir.  I shan’t.  Scout’s honor.
I have an ask of you though (unrelated to the above)....
Can you lay off Russia for a hot min while we kick turkey’s ass?
Sure man what’s up?
Uh I’m gonna hit warsaw, I want that fleet gone
But I don’t think I’ll get it until next year
Uh that’s fair.  I mean I’d do the same if I was in your shoes.  I just want turkey gone, and that’s gonna be a real long road without support from the north.
Thanks for understanding bro. It’s a natural pick up for me. I don’t think I’ll get it until next spring if that’s any consolation
No no, I get it man.  Maybe you can help out with Turkey when you get far enough east if we haven’t cracked that nut by then, but all things in good time.
I may just try for Paris again instead of Gus, don’t want you to think I lied to you if I run that move instead
My thought it I don’t risk losing burg and who knows I just might take it
Rgr.  Stand ready to support whatever you decide.
This alliance is a two-way street and you’ve been crushing it on your side of the avenue- just lmk how I can help!
Absolutely man! Thanks for being so supportive 😃
Hey man how’s it going?
Hey dude- went to bed at 945 last night and just now seeing this.  My week for a busy work trip hahaha.  What’s up?
Yo just a heads up- I think england and austria are going to attack you in Warsaw...
Why do you think that?
Austria has been really incommunicado recently and it’s what I would do if I was him
England is a homie tho.
England getting a build- which england needs!- is much less threatening to Austria than you getting a build.
Now that Russia is done and France is close to being dead, what are you thinking for the future?
I mean, you know his interactions with you better than I do, but it seems like his back is up against the wall a bit here
Mannnn, I’m Fence sitting as long as I can
I don’t wanna make this choice
No chance for a three way Germany austria Italy victory huh
I’m doing the same. Austria kept trying to get me to attack England but I stayed neutral.
I wish we could just all hug it out imo
Lol I agree!!!
I mean Idk about England
I’ve gotten mixed signals from him
And I haven’t followed the Scandinavia brouhaha very closely honestly
What’s good man?
Yooo what’s up
So what’s happening with that army in Munich???
Idk but I promise I won’t hit you.
Tyrolia would threaten me obviously
Can you promise it’s not going there?
Yes I can promise
So long as I can continue to expect non-aggression from you
Word
Similarly you have to understand if you move uni Tryolia I would see it as aggression :/
Hoping we don’t go there bro
Oh for sure
Neither of us move there
If we do we’re fucks
Dirty no-good finks
Bitch boys
Asshats
I’m totally game!!
Sounds good man. Glad we’re on the same page here.
Sidebar- what’re you gonna do about england?
Based on the overtures he’s making to me, he is not your friend
Woah dude Austria knows my IRL name I’m freaked rn
What
How
Yeah idk dude
Wtf
That’s not cool man
Not cool at all
How does he know
Dude idk I’m like freaked
I mean it was only my first name but I assume he like knows who I am IRL
Did he say it in a threatening way???
Context???
I think he was trying to get me to trust him but like it backfired big time
How did he say it
Just causally incorporated my first name into a chat
“You far overestimate me *******”
Yikes
Yikes indeed
He’s like freaking me out
I basically said that this gambit by using my irl name backfired because now I don’t trust him
Let’s talk dude
Yeah dude for sure
And he was like
“We never had had trust before”
So I’ve lost a LOTTT of respect for austria
By him doing this gambit
“You thought we had trust. That is the mirage of diplomacy”
How allied with England are you?
Well I thought we were strong AF but idk now based on what you and Austria are telling me
Strong AF as in, willing to end the game together?
Nah idk about that but strong enough to leave parts of our borders undefended
Strong enough he let me take the North Sea
Ok
What does a good endgame look like to you
I’ve lost a lottt of respect for austria bc of this shit
At this point, Austria getting knocked out. Beyond that I’m an open book.
Are you willing to commit to me rn- no england- for a shared victory
Np if you’re not
And if you say no now, you’re not necessarily foreclosing that option forever
Well me and england are only committed to taking out Austria
I’ve indicated I’m open to a final two arrangement, but he hasn’t agreed so I’m open to an arrangement with you.
I mostly indicated my openness because I would feel more comfortable having a total and complete ally
Are you comfortable with revisiting this after we take out Austria? I don’t want to make a final decision until my primary objective is complete
I appreciate that but I’m not really comfortable waiting
Bc if we want and your answer is no, then I’m fuckin hosed, yknow?
Okay I understand. I can agree if we can be agree to a reasonable arrangement with England (aka I don’t want to knife him until Austria is disposed with because that is the terms of our alliance)
What is your idea of a reasonable arrangement with england
Three way shares victory?
Me not attacking him until Austria is gone
Also just strategically if we want Austria gone, we shouldn’t hit him right away.
Can you get on board with that? I’m down to work with you to a two way victory so long has you don’t expect me to knife england earlier than I would like.
Let’s revisit this in a turn?  I gotta go to bed- but I’ve lost a lot of respect for him...and I need to think about how I see things evolving
Yeah if you want to take your time with england that isn’t an obstacle
That’s my only issue. If your in, I’m in.
Can’t make decisions when I’m this tired- but I think we have an agreement.
That army in Venice- where do you want it to go under this arrangement?
We need to move on Austria all out ASAP
If I can trust you, into try
As a sign of trust here is my move set
Don’t fuck me over tho
A Ber - Sil
A Bur H
F Den - HEL
A Mun - Boh
F NTH H
A Par S Pic - Bre
A Ruh - Mun
A Sil - Gal
A War S Sil - Gal
I will not fuck you over
I clearly trust you lol
Let’s talk tomorrow
I can’t make this big a decision rn
I trust you too
For sure
Rn- promise I won’t move into tyrolia
That’s what matters
Or tell anyone about this discussion
We have trust
Okay I mean you can if you go after Austria
Sounds good man!
Talk soon
Night dude
Night man
Hey man how’s it going
What’s up?
Hey- sorry I’m just messaging now1 was driving all day yesterday
No sweat man. Checking in.
Word
I want to move into Tyr to help me take Vienna next year. I promise I will not go after you in any way.
I can support you into Gas if you want
Mannnn honestly I need help with the UK
But I’m not sure you can, just bc I don’t think you have the navies
Yeah I need to focus all my attention on Austria. My biggest advantage right now against him is only having one front.
Do you see any chance to keep Turkey kicking a little longer?
Not really.  You know how Turkey is- once the door gets kicked in they fall pretty quick- especially now that Constantinople is doa
Yeah it’s over
England and I couldn’t get engaged fast enough, and Turkey made some bad plays
He held on long all things considered!
Agreed dude!
Hope you’re okay with my move into Tyr?
I didn’t see your message about it until just now but I appreciate you giving me the heads up
We Gucci
I’m off to bed now, but let’s talk tomorrow and figure out where we go from here
Thanks bro. Sounds good!
Could you support Mun > Tyr?
Maybe
What’s England doing with that army in Brest???
I’m trying to see if there’s room for you to support me into Gascony
Hey sorry I missed this. Are you going to support Austria? What’s your logic with the Tyr move?
For the record - I have no choice but to see this as an act of aggression towards me 😦
Wowww there
Just seeing this now, wasn’t trying to start shot
Hahah do you blame me? I need Tyr.
What was that in Marseilles???
retaliation for going into Tyr
I don’t want any hostility between us tho
Why did you move into Tyr?
Same reason I held my fleet in eas- I wasn’t paying attention and forgot to issue orders lol
Had a crazy few days/nights now that I’m back home in dc and I’ve been tuned out
Hahaha okay I mean fair
No worries then man. I hope you can forgive me for misunderstanding your intentions
No sweat
But let’s talk abut how to fix this later!
I’m running ofc to something rn
Sounds good to me.
Hey man - you good to talk?
Ugh was at work the
Good now for a min
What’s up?
Just want to check in. Thanks for taking down that unit.
I gotchu b
So any chance you stay neutral in my fight  wirh England???
100%
Sorry for the delay in getting back to you
Been traveling. In Cali rn.
I expect you to stay neutral between me and Austria tho.
I don’t want two theatres.
If you could support me into Tyr that would be beyond dope.
What’s going on man
Reaching out one more time, but based on the attack you launched with Austria it’s going to be hard for me to not work against you now 😦
Hey dude you there?
Yo honestly I’ve been so busy I haven’t been able to think about this at all.  Not talking to Austria in the slightest- he keept asking me for help into tyrolia so I decided bumping everyone was the best I could do to keep you both equally pissed at me.
Truth is I think the game is basically over for me- would love for you to stay neutral in regards to me but do what u gotta do
I don’t buy it
Yeah okay sounds good
Don’t buy what?
I question if you’re working with Austria tbh
Nothing personal
I mean I get it bouncing makes sense if you’re you’re not paying attention
I mean that’s fair
In the last 2 weeks- I got back from vacation, got swamped with work, and got dumped, so now basically all my free time is work and dating to try vainly to keep me from dying alone lol
Up to you to believe that or not!  Diplomacy has taken a back seat to life stuff, and that is fine by me.  I should’ve been asleep an hour ago, so I’m going to bed!  Night Germany!
Dude so so so sorry about the break up
That blows.
All the best man. Good night
Mannnn it was probably overdue tbqh, but that’s a separate story
Don’t cry for me Argentina etc etc
Anyway, night!
Night bro
What’s good man
Ay just seeing this what’s up
No worries man. Hoping we can chat.
Yo you around???
Sort of at a party
Ha don’t worry man, I’m at a bar, well talk later
Word tomorrow is pretty low key for me
I’m in west coast time till Monday night and I’ll be flying most of the day Monday FYI
Rgr let’s try to chat tomorrow
Deal
Yo
Last minute but you there?
Hey man sorry- Sunday was busy.  You around nowV
Yeah what’s good
You wanna work womrth@g out?
Yeah I’m down
What’re you thinking?  How can I help ya?
Idk man. I’m worried england is gonna turn on me, which means I have to hit him hard soon
Without giving too much away I think you are right to be worried
We need to get read of France then we can take him in
*on
Tbh can you give a little more than that away?
Well what has he told you?
To chill out and not worry
Lollll
He approached me about stabbing you
Yeah right lol
Suggests he does not view your partnership as permanent
Hey, you asked me what he said, your call on whether or not to believe me
all good man
Appreciate the tip
Lol I
Yo you were right
I got you into mar
I see that and I’m grateful!!!
What can I do for you my man
One thing man! Can you support tri from ven?
Gah I’m Italy fuck everything
Let’s talk my dude.  I think an initial ceasefire for this first turn- or maybe longer!- may be in both of our advantages.  What’re you thinking?
I tend to agree, I would rather move east here, and I'm fine with some sort of Lepanto.
Slow day at work so I'm free if you want to talk a bit.  I've sent one message to Turkey and heard nothing yet so I don't feel super great rn.
Hey Italy, would love to talk strategy if you're free for a bit!
Hey man, super sorry about earlier- can’t talk at work (earlier message was sent on my lunch break lol), but I’m free now!
What’re you thinking re: strategy?
No worries! It happens.  I hadn't gotten any messages from anyone so I was a little frustrated.  Glad that you at least are responsive
I reached out to Turkey about an alliance but haven't heard from him.  If he's going to be an unresponsive Ally, I don't want to work with him and I'm fine with taking him on, ideally with your help.  I think the two of us would do well together
You ever do a blue water Lepanto?
I won’t be responsive at all during work hours, just FYI- but I promise to make up for it by being EXTRA responsive when I’m off work haha
I have not!  What’re you thinking?  I’m fine with going “full kimono” with you (as it were)...obviously one of my builds needs to be Tunis, where do you think build 2 comes from?
This is also my first time playing as Italy so idk what I’m doing lol
So you probably won't get two builds this round because the only sc in reach mine and I won't love it if you attack me early 😂😂
But Tunis is a great call here and you can set yourself up to move into a good position against Turkey while also taking Tunis
I would love to see you moving against France here, so we can build a solid foundation to expand outward from- eventually my dream is to DMZ the Venice/Trieste area
What’s the blue water Lepanto tho?
I am skeptical of France
He had been uncommunicative
Yeah, same with everyone else for me (England has talked a bit).  I'm fully committed to you right now, and I'm hoping you feel the same way.
The Lepanto moveset is a Austro-Italian moveset against Turkey
The bluewater makes it more difficult for Turkey to see the attack coming and thus defend it
It's my go-to opening as Austria, or as Italy working with Austria
I’ll be honest- I’m pretty close to saying fuck it and going all in with you hahaha
I mean- if I get out of the game w/e, I’m Italy and I’m SUPER busy at work, I have low expectations
Would be happy to hear that- I'm all in rn
Having a relatively committed Ally is all I ask
In the words of the fyre festival guy, “Let's just do it and be legends, man.”
It's hard to express how poor this level of Diplomacy is rn
I haven't lied nor recieved a lie, as far as I'm aware
So you’ve played diplomacy a lot then?
Quite a bit.  Do you know who I am?
Zero idea
Buncha people signed up months ago for $10 and forgot they’d actually have to play lol
My handle is [redacted], I was #1 on the Conspiracy app for a bit and I run the Nexus tournament server, the largest online Diplomacy tournament in the world
How were you recruited?
Damn hahaha
https://www.stitcher.com/podcast/diplomacy-games/e/61940739
admin- how do you know him?
Your biography is impressive sir
Hahaha didn't know that was so accessible
I was recruited on a Diplomacy forum
I don't actually know admin
Maybe I’m just reallll fuckin good at google haha
"the most niche corners of the internet"
So- honestly, I’m a bit skeptical here.  A) it would be very like someone to fuck with me in this whole endeavor and pretend to be someone else.  B) I’m always skeptical of people coming on strong for alliances very early.  C) if you’re an experience diplomacy player, I’m sure you love yourself a solo victory.  But!  I’m fuckin Italy, and if you are as good a diplomacy player as you say you are, Ive got very little shot if I don’t cooperate with you.  Andddd if I exit this game early, ¯\_(ツ)_/¯.
So I’m in- what’re our moves this first turn?
Hey, this is a fun game for me and I'm interested in the project, but I'm not involved in this in any other way.  I'll see if I can find the original recruiting message and screenshot it
Would I like to win? Yeah.  However, the research element is kind of interesting to me, I get compensation regardless of my final gameplay, and this game is low stakes compared to most of the ones I play
I'm more than happy to ally long term with you
No need to dig up your recruitment forum post!
I trust you
As much or slightly more so than is normal in this situation haha
Besides, if you’re the only person returning my calls, you’re the only game in town lol
So what moves should I make here to start the game?  And what moves will you make?
Full kimono time baby
You thought the opponent told the truth.
You thought the opponent told the truth.
You thought the opponent told the truth.
You thought the opponent told the truth.
You thought the opponent told the truth.
You thought the opponent told the truth.
You thought the opponent told the truth.

This may get old really soon...
If you're all in, I'll just send you a link.  It's Austria driven, but pretty balanced.  The Bluewater is geared towards Austria because getting the retreat is essential, but the outcome is the same as a classic lepanto
Yeah I’m all in
Send me dat shit and I’ll fill my orders out tomorrow for the Wednesday noon deadline- bedtime soon for me
Fucking lol
Same here, what time zone and work schedule you on?
https://diplomacy.fandom.com/wiki/The_Blue_Water_Lepanto
Yes bot, my fucking link is true 😂
EST
busy 730ish until 730pm ish with little to no phone access (Sorry, I know!) but around otherwise
Ok- read some of this, will save the rest for tomorrow.  I’m off to bed, catch you tomorrow.
Same here for the schedule.  It was a slow day at work, so I was texting. Normally I can't.  I'm busy 7:30a-7p on weekdays, so this works out
Out of work just FYI
Just got out myself
Do we have anything more we need to talk about?  I still am In on this alliamce, gonna do the lepanto
Like dis
I think we're good.  Thanks for confirming
Fuck
Only the lie emoji showed up and I clicked it by accident.  I hope this doesn't mess with the results
Lol I wouldn’t be too worried about it
What moves are you gonna make?  Not gonna tell anyone- just want to have something to hold you too later
Yeah, no worries, I'll be standard opening probably, depending on what Warsaw does: Vie-Gal, Tri-Alb, Bud-Serb
I'll let you know if those change
Cool cool
Just wanna have something to hold you to so in the understandable event that you do stab me, I can know quickly lol
Yeah, I'll let you know if I vary from that.  A tip- most good Diplomacy players, they just manipulate the circumstances of the moves
They don't ever lie to someone's face.  It's a waste of a valuable connection
Mhmm rgr
Aside from the misclick earlier, I haven't lied this game
“Oh I was GONNA do that, but then x and y FORCED ME to do this other thing”
I getcha
Yeahhh, or I get someone else to attack you while I work with you.  I'm not doing that, nobody's responsive enough to do that, but it's a strategy I might use in a tournament game
Come join the Nexus server! You would enjoy it!
https://discord.gg/P5vyvz8
Lol I’m not the best at diplomacy, but I have played before and I do enjoy it!  I haven’t lied either so far this game...In a world where literally anyone else in this game is communicative, our relationship would look very different, but that is clearly not the case here lol
Can I take you up on that another time?  I’m ridiculously busy with work rn- and honestly, I wouldn’t want to join a game unless I could give it my full attention.
On that note, I’m off to bed- hmu in the am if you want, otherwise I’ll catch you after orders resolve!
It's just a community, it wouldn't commit you to anything yet.  We have essentially the same schedules...I'm in bed rn
I'm not trying to turn anyone on you :).  The stakes are low enough and I'm having fun
Cool, just joined- saw season 3 starts aug 25!
Yes!
Plan change: Vie is going to Bud
Hey!  Left work early today- FASCINATING game, especially in the north.
What’re your thoughts for next turn?  Think there’s an opportunity with Germany?
I’m probably going easy build with Tunis unless you think Greece is an option for me
Go for Tunis, idk if Greece is guaranteed yet.  Russia is a dumbass but I told him to do that.  He and Turkey are pretty new and I could take them both myself if you want to move on France
Yeah you’re gonna get BEAUCOUP builds this turn man
Yeah it feels like I’m playing things a bit safe this turn but w/e
I put a bit of time into that relationship but whatever
What relationship?
You have to play this safe.  I'm honestly thinking of covering Tri here just in case. I don't NEED Rum yet
Turkey and Russia
Ahhh I see
Yeah I’m not making moves oh truest obviously
*on trieste
That buys me a build at the expense of fucking me in the medium term (not even long term lol)
Yeah, I'm not sure that would be a great idea for either of us
Any advice on what I should do with that army???
I would love to see you push France, but I'm obviously biased of course.  At the least, if you would move it away from Tri I would be obliged
What do you want Germany to do here?  Help you take on France or stay well out of the area so you can take most of him yourself?
Hmmm a few thoughts
shoot
I want *something* for moving away from Trieste.  Can we go ahead and make Trieste-Venice a DMZ until further notice?
Full warning- you’re positioning for a lot of builds, so I’m obviously a little wary of a super strong Austria right up in my biznass
Absolutely- that's my intent
I'm not taking Rum this turn, and I'm planning to make Turkey mad.  Those are both true
You can trust me.  I really have too much potential in the east to want to piss off the only true ally I'll have by 1902.
Ok- so none of my armies/navies in Venice after this build, none of yours in Trieste.  Done deal.
Second- yeah, I want Germany’s help with France- with the UK going elsewhere, I need something to distract France.  What’ve your discussions with Germany been like?
I may in the future need to build a fleet in Tri to attack Turkey.  I'll let you know when and you can respond with a build in kind
I don't have any other coastal provinces so my options are limited
Rgr.  I just need prior notification that I have the chance to see and acknowledge.
that's fine for me
thanks for being agreeable
No worries.
Ok, here are my goals for this turn: Germany can't let Russia into Sweden this turn, but Germany and Russia need to partner up against England in the future.  Have England attack France this turn, and you finish France off
Here's the way this will play out
England will move aggressively on France, pulling France's attention northward while you come in.  A weak Russia and Germany will move on England afterward, reversing the course of England's fleets and staving off his attack on France.  France, who committed defensively to the north, will not be able to ward you off and you can slide in.  England will be next and Russia is falling around this time as well.  Germany will be left and we can figure out a plan from there
This stays between you can me.  I'm not in the mood for message forwards right now
Rgr.  You can trust me.
Only issue I have is- how CAN England attack France?  He can go to Belgium, but why would he, and that isn’t *that* bad for France...
England should be wanting belgium
If the two of us (plus Germany) convince him to take on France, he'll take on France
Is he tho?  Have you talked to him?
Diplomacy players are like sheep and will follow the crowd.  Two is a crown, if played effectively
Yep
Working on him right now
Hmmm lemme know what he says...he hasn’t talked to me yet
No, this on is on you now.  You need to get Germany to ask England to hit France with the two of you
England will comply
Hokay, will try
The real trick is keeping Russia busy with Germany for one turn
Any ideas what I should do with my apulia army?
Can you ask Germany to bounce Russia in sweden?
Convoy that sucker to Tunis
Ah doy, yes
Yeah I’m talking to Germany rn.  Will make a plug.
Thanks.  Make it happen 😃
I'm really not trying to control you.  This is just a pretty straightforward game if we play it right, and Italy/Austria rarely pull a good game out together, so I am excited about our chances
Dude, I am a-ok with taking advice/guidance from you and being the junior partner hahaha
Awesome!  Let's steamroll this game!
At the point where france is unwilling to partner, you’re my best chance for making it to late game-  any backstab of you is so clearly not in my medium/long term interests hahaha
And vice versa.  I'm not in the mood of wrecking this game over a dumb stab
Hoping to bounce Turkey in Rum
Get England going towards France
I pitched England and Germany but they are very uncommunicative
Are you getting any vibes from them?
England is thinking about attacking Germany.  If you can take on France alone, I'm fine with that
I just don't want Russia tough, that's all
We've got to talk builds
I’m out of work now
Surely do!
You gotta build in Trieste don’t you...let’s work out some assurances
You got your word for a weak Russia huh!
FYI- I am lying to Turkey rn- let’s talk when you can
Ayyy we gotta talk
I don't like the western dynamics at all
France's convoy was sneaky and England set up Belgium too well
Germany lied to me about Berlin
Yeahhhh it’s concerning
So context for me- I’m trying to persuade turkey not to build a fleet in the south
By saying I’m more concerned about you and France.
Good
What’re you thinking for your builds?
Do I want a fleet Tri? It would help with the turkey takedown
I forgot about Turkey getting Sev.  That's a pain in my ass
I would obviously prefer fleet Trieste lol
And I’m trusting you here obviously
Good, I wanted F tri but wanted you to say it.  F Tri A vie. Turkey is stupidly strong already, I told Russia how to defend and he didn't do it
It’s all Gucci my dude.  He can’t beat you me and Russia.
And that’s what he’s gonna be up against.
Just make sure I get builds out of his downfall.
Yeah.  France is strong now too
Germany is thinking about allying with him
France is always strong early
If you can get France going against England away from you, you can get the jump on him
Just have to hope that favorable geography will save me
Yeah but he's relatively consequence free
And England
They all are.  I'm pressuring France to build up North for you
You'll need a fleet here to assert Med dominance
Oh for sure
I was thinking Fleet napoli
Yeah that's fine
More flexibility that way for you
FYI I’m telling everyone that I’m building an army in Venice
To guard against you
But I ain’t lol
You can, but honestly preserve your social capital.  It's your call.  I don't think I've lied yet and I don't think I will this game.  Save your lie for the two center stab, not the build position
I mean I’m telling turkey that
Not everyone
Kk
But your advice is well taken
What’re you telling turkey?
I may need you to forward some messages to Turkey in the future
I'm congratulating him on getting into Russia
Rgr
Here to help!
Thanks.  Lmk if you ever need it from me
Will do.  Not gonna forward any messages without explicit permission as a rule- so I’ll check in with you if we need to.
Ty ty
Let’s circle up again post builds but I don’t think we need to talk about anything more this order cycle!
Best of luck with France.  Try to get him to build up North
Yeah, we're good
I'm trying hard for you
Likewise my dude.  Lmk how I can facilitate your turkey discussions through message sharing or otherwise.
👌👌
Think it’s to my advantage to talk to France, based on your convos with him?
Can't hurt
Can you find out Turkey's planned S02 moves without being obvious about it?  I need to coordinate with Russia
I’ll try but honestly, probably can’t-  He’s not going to be happy about my fleet build.  Right now we’re talking about convoying Tunis into Greece which, lol
You can easily explain the build.  The fleet gives you more leverage against me, both in the short and long run
I’ll try!  Will report back.  Let’s coordinate later on next moves but we’ve got a little breathing space.
Sure
Let’s talk when you can.  I’m taking some flights today but otherwise I’m around.
I'm here. Hit me.
What’re you thinking for moves?  Right now I’m planning to send my fleets towards turkey and make a move for Marseilles hoping to bounce- then move my army in Tunis forward- but I’m curious what your thoughts are, and how I can plug into your strategy.
Both seem good.  I'd split the fleets, one west and one east, but that's just me
I assume you’re going full court press on turkey?
That's true
While keeping Russia in my pocket
And France?
France is saying he doesn’t want war...I think England is down to get him but idk what Germany is feeling.  I’m divided between going all in on turkey Vice dividing my efforts between him and France
I’m probably not getting more than one build out of Turkey am I?
Russia wants something out of this too and soon there will be very little Turkey for anyone
Turkey will be a tough nut to crack and I want to be honest and say I don't know.  You'll definitely get a build but I don't want you to have to overcommit that way
So long as I get one build I’m a happy camper.
I'll do my best to make that happen
Because ultimately, starving you out of a build would make you turn on me eventually.  You can know I'm telling the truth about giving you builds because I don't want you to fall far behind and become jealous of the growth of your neighbors.  Does that make sense?
Nah I’m with it
I trust you
Just gimme smyerna, that’s all Italy wants
lol kk. Let's do this
Can you see my profile pic or is it just the default Discord one?
Can we just check plans here? Your committing a single fleet to Turkey and the other towards France?
Default pic I’m afraid
Yeah.  Happy to discuss em in more detail iffff you’d like.  What’s your strategy?  What’re you doing with that fleet in Trieste?
Heading down into the Adriatic here.  Trying to contain Turkey
Germany is worried about an EF
Hmm why Adriatic Vice Albania?  Sure you have your reasons, just curious
Yeah...Germany is telling me he thinks France and England are allies.  Would be bad.
In all honesty, for the pressure.  I have no plans to lie to you, but if you happened to support Turkey into Greece or something, I would have options to respond in the fall
Fair enough man.  That said, that makes me a bit worried about a stab right before build phase.  Anything I can offer you to not do that?
Send that second fleet towards France and we should be fine 😉 I think you were planning on that anyway, so that shouldn't be too much of a pain
Lol I think we can do that buddy
Rn I was thinking Napoli to TYS, ION to EAS- that copacetic by you?
Perfect
Great!  In return I can expect that fleet to go to Albania instead of Adriatic, yes?  Just want to make sure we don’t have any misunderstandings!
Yep!  Good clarification
Yeeeee, let’s do the damn thing my man
Yo- if you’re there, does it make more sense for Ionian to go to Aegean so it can support stuff up there?
Won’t make that move without your go ahead but wanted to ask
Eh fuck it, let’s not dick around with it.  See you after moves resolve!
Yeah sorry, I had to sleep.  A decent moveset for us both, looks like you'll be able to force Marseilles in the near future
The best part is that Ven and Tri are successfully DMZ
No worries man.  We’re in a good place for sure.
Is Germany supporting Mar here?
I sure think so- not sure that move makes any sense otherwise
Turkey is likely to reach out to you here.  Can you ascertain his moves and lmk his plans? I'll do the same for you if he'll tell me
Word
The EF showdown is good to see
Looks like Germany was wrong there
Yah france’s game is a bit of a mess rn.  Sidebar- just signed up for a game on nexus!!!
Amazing! Good to have you! What game?
What has Germany said about support to Mar?
Not in yet, but filled out a google form for backstabbr!
He hasn’t said shit...about anything....I’m getting nervous.  Have you talked to him today?  I was planning to hit him back up around 530 EST
Nothing yet, he may be working like us
Well I’m on vacation this week- hence my responsiveness hahaha
But your point is well-taken- is why I was gonna wait to engage him until after EST working hours.
Lol
He just got back to me
Nice!  I’ll give him a few min.
How goes it friend?
I'm all set
You?
Yeah, I think same
Germany agreed to let you into Mar
Trying to work France to my advantage but I feel good
Yeah but- and let’s keep this part secret- France can block it right?
If he attacks burgundy to cancel Germany’s support
Right
So I’m trying to finesse that
But if you're going to Lyo you get it no matter what
In spring
We’ll see if I am successful and we’ll see if France is smart enough to make that play
And you'll get smy for certain in 1903
Yeah, England may be looking strong
So honestly I was thinking that I’d go into WES instead to convoy that army into Spain later
Do you think that’s dumb?  I just don’t like it just chilling in Tunis
Hahaha excellent!!!
Why did Russia hold in Moscow???  Makes no sense
He's not great :/
Your Wes idea works out well lol
Lol thank you- calculated risk but it paid off.
You see England’s order to Picardy tosupport a French attack from Paris to burgundy?  I fear we’re seeing a french/england axis emerge after all...
Do you think you could put a word in france’s ear about what unit he should disband?
Also, looking at this game, Germany is about to be very strong- do you trust him?  He’s my second tier ally after you, but idk if he’d start going after you....
He's not going after me.  I set him up against England.  He'll be busy for a while
You told england to do that?  Or you told Germany to go after england?
Also, when you can- whatrecyou thinking re: upcoming builds.
I told both to attack each other.  Very truthfully of course.  The point is to get Germany to distract England from helping you and keep G busy fighting a war it will take a while to win.
By the time G is done with England, you and I will have turned around and will be ready to move against him
Lol we should have deconflicted- I spent a lot of time last night trying to get england and Germany to play nice at least few the next turn.  I assume you don’t want england to help me bc you don’t want me to get too strong?
England and France were allied.  I'm thinking long term about our strategy. England won't help you- as evidenced by the fact that even after you spent a long time talking to him last night, he still supported France against you.
Think big picture here about how things will play out after you finish off France.  This isn't about you getting too strong, it's about Germany getting too strong
No no I support your play here.
Gotcha. I trust you, and want to see you succeed :)
Just your phrasing- “get Germany to distract england from helping you”- I thought I’d ask about it.
Gotcha, I trust you and want to see you succeed! Let's do this!
No no, same!  This is working out real well all things considered.
I meant France, my bad
I'm typing a little too fast at work and I'm a bit distracted 😂😂
Ah see I figured something like that.  We good homie.
No worries my dude!  I’m free to talk builds whenever, but we can wait until later today- just lmk.
Turkey took his back so I'll probably just go A Vie
I’m divided on army Rome or fleet Napoli- feels like the southern oceans are a bit crowded and another navy is overkill- welcome your thoughts, but I won’t build anything in venice 😉
I'm fine with either.  You may struggle to fully take the Iberian without another fleet and you have that one army in Tunis to bring to bear on the mainland
Supporting you into Smyrna this turn, can you do the same for me into Con in the fall?
Assuming I get into Smyrna of course, done deal.  You can count on it!
Amazing.  This is such a great start
All out enemies are focused elsewhere, really the perfect setup
I miss Diplomacy so much.  I'm normally too busy with the Nexus to play actual games and I've recused myself from tournament games so I'm not accused of conflict of interest
But that means I don't play as often as I'd like
Glad we can get some good diplomacy time in for yah my dude 😃
This is getting me back into the game, not gonna lie- rusty start but I’m remembering how much I enjoy it again.  Glad I’m on vacation this week so I can really geek out properly 😃
This is the best week to be free.  Game will get slow as we pull ahead
I planned it that way clearly 😉
Do you think it makes sense for you to put a word in france’s ear on what unit he should disband?
Go for it
No I mean for you to do it hahaha- he won’t trust me and we don’t have that relationship
If you don’t either nbd, but clearly going “hey, I’m a ranked diplomacy player, here’s what I think you should do” has worked out ok for you so far lol
Which unit you want gone?
I'm usually not that forceful.  I'd be a lot more subtle.  There's a million ways to do it and that tactic wouldnt work here
Yeah I can
Oh lol
I mean If that fleet in MAO disappears I ain’t mad
Haha kk
I’m reticent to suggest it bc I think then he may go “oh fuck now I definitely don’t want to disband that fleet” hahaha
I'll let you know how it goes
No worries either way dude- but I appreciate it!
He wasn't responded to me, although I reached out
Not sure it will happen, he doesn't seem to be online
It would remove the farthest unit from his home then right, if he doesn’t submit orders?  Which is either the fleet or the Spain army i think
Sidebar- Germany is building an army in Munich- just a heads up.
You’re still going army Vienna yes?
Army Bud
Awww I think you’re my bud too pal
Jk I know what you meant
Hilarious
Do we need to talk about anything?  Anything I can do for ya?  Our Smyrna deal stands.
You got my back into Smyrna again?
I didn't last night, I had a last minute change of heart because I saw a better moveset.  I have you this time though
I'm also hitting Con so that unit can't support Smy
What's going on with Germany?
I really need you to hit Constantinople AND support me into Smyrna- so that army in Armenia (I think?) can’t bounce me.  Is that doable?
Both are doable and done
That's still not a guarantee you'll get it, but we'll try out best
Germany got Russia to fuck up and it indirectly cost you a center
So I'm not particularly happy rn
What did Germany do?
By threatening Russia, which wasn't the plan, Russia isn't in position to take back STP in the fall and thus we can't pressure that Arm unit
So Arm is free to defend Smy, which means we're not likely to get it
Yeah between that and France making a optimal disband decision that will make Iberia take longer, things are slowing down for us a bit.  Not the end of the world- but I was hoping France and Turkey would be well on their way to dead by now.
Turkey and England are notoriously hard to kill, but Germany is incredibly unhelpful
Yeah Germany senses Russia is dying and he’s making a grab.  Can’t blame him tbqh but it complicates our stuff for sure.
If I get another build in Iberia next year I can help speed things along.
Going biking- feel free to message but I’ll respond later.
Russia's not dying to him.  Russia's dying to England.  Notice the reposition in the north
Please put some pressure on Germany to keep all focus on England
Also also, he asked me not to give you Smyrna.  He's playing tricky and he's doing it badly
Rgr will teyZ
*try
Do we have anything to talk about?
I'd like to tell Germany to stop giving England a free pass, but I'm running out of ways to do it
Yeahhhh I tried to tell him that and no dice.
Nah I don’t think so- you’ve got my back x2 with Smyrna, which probably won’t work but ¯\_(ツ)_/¯- can you think of anything to discuss?
He’s going after Russia while the getting is good.
I’m telling turkey we’re having an argument to see if it makes him discount the prospect of you supporting me into Smyrna...hail Mary but idc
Turkey and I have been communicative, I can help on the end
Yeah, it's worth a try
Also, Germany isn't getting Russia, England will
I don't see why no one gets that
Yeah feel free to tell austria we’re beefing- may muddy the waters
Man- and I say this with all due respect- I think you’re so far more skilled than most of the people playing (I include myself in that group!), you just see shit others don’t
You’re in the land of the blind...except you have two eyes...so you’re not king, you’re just a know it all (if that analogy makes any sense) 😉
I'll tell myself we're beefing
That'll really confused him ;)
Will do
Hahaha no sweat.  You're good at flattery, you should play Diplomacy
Lollll
So we have a bit of a problem
Talk to me
I just landed back on the east coast
What’s up dude
Not a great turn
Actually a very bad turn
Talk to me- what hard choices are we faced with for next turn?
Let's see what Turkey disbands
Priority number one is to get England and Germany turned against each other, or they will be too big for us to handle later. England can make it really hard for us to finish off turkey, and England and Germany together can probably take most of France. We need to split them up.
Agreed for sure.  Will try to sow dissent among them.
What’s your build going to be?
A Vie or Bud
Leaning towards Vie right now
I've gotten nothing from anyone else
This isn't a great look for us. Stay strong against France and Turkey. We'll have a stalemate line soon
Neither have I...but tbqh Idk if that’s just bc it’s the weekend/people perceive at this stage there’s not much to talk about.
Unless there’s been some miraculous england-Germany rapprochement- Which I haven’t seen!- I think we’re good
I mean Germany and I have discussed next moves
You still supporting me into Smyrna per last turn?
So we need to shift some units or we can't get it
But I can get you in Fall 1903
Keep Germany and England split
It’s 1904 now
I get that keeping england and France split is the overwhelming priority but I’d love to see movement on Smyrna by the end of this year
England and Germany, yeah
And we can't get Smy unless you move to Syria here
If I do that, you move AEG to EAS and Greece to AEG in preparation for an attack next turn?
And yeah, sorry- slipped up there
Exactly
Ah shit.  Sorry man- went to bed at 945 and forgot to change that order.  Super sorry.
Yeah, that sucked. However, the good news is that I got into Sev, so he may try a different defensive moveset this time. I think we are a go for a supported attack of Smyrna
Assume it's us against Turkey, England, and Germany for the rest of the game
We honestly got lucky that turn
Roger that.  Will push ahead with Smyrna attack.  Apologies again.  Things are looking good!
It's a bit of guessing here, but fortunately we have turkey on lockdown for now.  Keep England and Germany against each other.  Tell Germany that you heard England plans to attack Warsaw with my support or something
Actually tell him exactly that
Done
Great.  Hopefully there will be fireworks.  If they go to war, we win
Even if they give up the fight after a year
Supporting you into Smyrna here, confirm?
Yes, sorry, just saw this, Shame it didn’t work
Good turn I think...thoughts on builds?  I was thinking army in Venice time
Where do you plan for that unit to go? You want to take on Germany here?
Also, provided you continue to work with me here, you get Smyrna this season, guaranteed. The units Turkey needs to support Smyrna need to be disbanded here
Ayyyy I’m definitely working with you first things first
You...are my fire.  Our alliance...my one desire.
But yeah, that was the plan.  At least give myself some cover over there from any designs he might have.  Idk, med feels full of ships, and I can’t think of any other builds unless you can suggest one
I would personally prefer to see an army build in Rom, which would go Tus-Pie-Mar
Just bc an army in Venice threatens you?
The problem is you're in a bit of a dilemma.  You have a lot of ships, true, but not a ton of room for another army
But it's your call
I’m gonna try to convoy the army in n Africa to France; I feel like an army in Rome will just get stuck behind Marseilles for a long while
I think any army does, which is the problem
Yeah I mean the problem is MAO is clearly a choke point also
Unless I shoot an army straight up from Venice at Munich
Get France to support you in.  The dude is desperate
The tyr move will be a tough sell to me :D
Especially if I'm helping you into Smyrna
😘
You don’t trust me at this point???
So I gotta go to bed soon- just messaged France and no response- so let’s assume we need to make this decision amongst ourselves
I’m trying to make a build that brings maximum benefit to this alliance.  I’m open to other suggestions if you can identify something that brings us more value!
Talk to me here- this has been going so well, I don’t want things to fall apart now
Ok man- bedtime for me- hope I see a fleet from you in Vienna.  Then we can start to move against Germany etc.
Shit shit, I'm still here
Real life stuff took me away for a sec
It's not that I don't trust you right now, I'm a Diplomacy player and I prefer manufactured trust, built up through our DMZ. It means I can work well with you without worrying about an imminent stab, and vice versa, which is easier for both of us
I would prefer to keep that up so we can continue to work together without distraction
You seem like a nice guy dril :)
Heading to bed myself- I'm sure it'll work out
Sorry about that- had a hard 9pm stop last night.  Happy to discuss moves today- honestly considering moving Venice over to piedmont to protect Marseilles (in which case...sorry I even built it in Venice in the first place!).  Regardless- we’ll take it out.
*TALK it out
I don't blame you. I don't think the build was a great one but sometimes that happens
The main point is that Germany is terrifying and needs to be pulled apart.  We can't slip into his centers, but if you and England take him from the West while England and I take him on in Russia, we have a chance
Agreed re: Germany.  Wish we’d had more time to discuss that build but it happens.
What have your interactions with england been like?  Agreed, Germany is realllll real strong- but he seems to be on good terms with England, at least from Germany’s optic.
I'm not concerned about the build, let's definitely talk next moves tonight though
Our #1 focus is splitting Germany and England.  Turkey is still too strong for us to start to pull off him
Ok agreed
Let’s talk whenever- I’m gonna go to bed early but hopefully less early than last night
Hmu whenever and we’ll talk strategy
Here rn off and on. This is important and we need to be reaching out to England early too.  Let's figure this out now
Rgr
What’re your thoughts?
(On moves specifically)
I'd like to finish off Turkey here without England fucking me.
If you can make sure that he doesn't support an attack on Moscow, you get Smyrna
Wow wow wow
I thought we were coordinating moves here
We are
And I thought I was getting Smyrna regardless
This is the first step
Not conditional on me making england do something I have no power to make him do
I can't tap arm unless Mos is safe, see?
And then neither of us get anything
I thought you were threatening me
Ahhh ok
Not explaining how to make this happen
Ofc not
lol
Lol it seemed a little unsubtle for you
I just messaged england
What should I tell him
He responded
Getting Smyrna is a priority for me, so I wanted to let you know the best way for us to do it
Do I have any moves to talk about with you?
Yeah
But we'll get there
Start with the easy stuff ;)
Like what I should tell england rn lol
Ask him to hit Moscow and talk about how dangerous Germany is
Like anything productive for that unit to be doing other than hitting me
I'm working on him too
Ok
I'm making progress
Let's talk about us now
Rgr
What us stuff would you like to discuss???
Btw just sent this to England "One of us has to move into it by the end of the year. Germany is building to move against me, Turkey is still a pain in the butt, and Italy is getting testy.  I need your help to crack this dude, and I can't be running damage control for the board on my own"
Just roll with it if he asks
Let's talk about that Venice unit
Absolutely.  It’s not going into Trieste obviously lol
But I assume you wanted a deeper discussion haha
Yeah, where is it going? I hate to say it, but Tyr may be the right option
Mhmmm so I was thinking piedmont to bolster my army in Marseilles against Germany pressure
(I can always pull it back to Venice if he moves to tyrolia)
Lolll ok
But tell me more about your thinking re: tyroli
I'd like to lock up that front and not have to worry about the north for the next two years
Assume he will
You'd get your Smy center and ONCE we turn away from Turkey, you can bet I'm coming hard for the north
But I'd rather open a temporary front up there for now
That Marseilles army is mighty vulnerable tho
Of course holding Marseilles isn't bad, but you should have built a fleet for that
That's true too
Once he gets into Gascony
Army can do that AND cover Venice from German predations
Better build for me
Which is why it's PIVOTAL for us to get Germany to hit England and vice versa
And Germany shouldn't need coaxing
But he does for some reason.  These players aren't recognizing opportunities
Kinda like ya
I mean they seem to be close allies lol
*us
Right
What else do we gotta discuss
Ok then lol, you can move to pie.
I'll try to figure it out with England.  This turn may suck.  I may just pull back from Turkey to cover up the north myself
But we need to get G and E turned on each other
This is the most pivotal turn of the game
Germany can get two more this turn and two more after that, which would be thirteen and England would be powerless to stop him
We wouldn't be in position to help England and Germany would get up to 16 by the time we finish Turkey and you get around the MAO chokepoint
Yeahhhh
Germany...has done nicely
I’m confused why
/how, rather
But we’re good on moves???
Nothing more to discuss?
We're good.  Can you tell Germany that he should move on Edinburgh and Norway here?
Am communicating rn
Germany says you know his real name?
wtf
Yeah
How
He’s freaked
Yeah, clearly
I think it's working though
How did you get his irl name
If the goal is to make him do your bidding, idk if that’ll work
No, the point is a little more subtle
I can explain after the game
Mhmmm
Do you know my irl name?
Would it help us win the game if I did?
Sure
Dude that’s kinda creepy
That you know that
It's not that creepy.  If we do AARs, I'll talk about it and my reason for name dropping
Ehhh talk about it now why not
I won’t repeat anything you say
I’m just concerned about the extent to which the veil of anonymity has been pieced
I'll keep it at that.
Nearly 0
Mhmmm I need you to give me some more info man
Germany shares a lot about his personal life
That should answer your questions
I’m not sure this accomplished what you wanted
I think it did.  I don't think Germany knows what I was going for.  I pulled an old trick on him, but it accomplished a couple points
Although
It did freak him out far more than I intended
I've had people look me up on facebook, my gf, my family
He willfully volunteered his information, so I'm a bit surprised he's surprised
I think this is a case of you not appreciating that he’s probably more casual than you haha
Do you know my name
No
We good
Yep
I’m gonna get Smyrna before next builds won’t I
That's the plan.  It's a guessing game with Turkey as you can see
You're going to get it this turn, possibly at the cost of my losing Sev
That’ll be ok tho
Bc we’ll get it back 😃
As a TEAM
Ok bed now
Night!!!
Night
Welp
The lines are drawn.  If we hadn't gotten Smyrna this round I would have had to stop supporting it
Also I really wish you had moved to Tyr now. Whatever. Hindsight 20/20
Well I could lose Smyrna pretty easily next turn if you don’t either support me or blast Constantinople
So I’m not happy just yet
It looks like you mismanaged Germany tbqh
Hell if I were God and could do everything, I would have one the game now.  I talked to Germany and England for 5 hours, extended the game deadline by another hour and got Germany to mismanage a critical convoy as well as not push Gascony.  I'll take it
You need to support me into Con this turn.  It likely won't work, but it will in the spring next year
Can we confirm that you can support me to Con?
Done
I’m supporting Aegean into Constantinople???  Or a different unit??
Oh sorry, Bulgaria to Com
Thanks
Fuck man was at work when you sent this
Whadda turn- I’m just checking back in
I think we lose this honestly
Yeahhhh it’s not lookin good
Why didn’t you tell me you were going into tyrolia?
Because I needed to block him and I know you weren't doing it anymore
Mhmm thought we had a non aggression pact there tho
Like I’m not opposed, but heads up would’ve been nice
But Germany is aggressive to us both and I'm not letting him into Tyr
That's fair
Yeah communication is still important but you know that
We gotta keep it together now lol
So Germany is getting into tyrolia this turn huh
Definitely not, but we need to guess perfectly here
What’re you thinking
I think the only think that we need for sure is you to move into Tyr here
I've spent the day coordinating the east with Turkey
It probably matters where I move from, yes?
Assuming you are supporting me?  Or is that incorrect on my part?
Ideally move via Venice so we maintain that front and you still have that one army to protect your army in Marseilles
I'm trying to take back Vienna, but if that doesn't work, will be just sitting in for the long haul around Tyr.
Aside from that, we need to get the Med blocked up
I think we can hold everything if the med is safe
Ideally you can burn that NAF army and replace with a fleet
Also you lose that Mar army this turn :(
Solid
???
What do you want Smyrna and Venice to do?
Supporting Ven to UKR here.  Your call on Smyrna
Supporting Venice to Tyr here*
What’re you thinking for the early game?
Hey Russia
Hey Italy,
I want to go North but that all depends on Turkey and if I hear back from them.
Heyyy guy
Thoughts re: la France?
Thinks seem pretty cordial so far. That said, I wouldn’t mind a thorn in his side. What are you thinking?
I’m thinking it might be to our advantage to pressure him a bit...rn he’s getting a LOT of builds this turn, and then he’s probably coming straight at us.
I can move on Picardy, but only if you move on Belgium.  I think Germany is going for him, so now’s your chance to get a slice of France while the getting is good.
Looking back at the board and damn, he has left Belgium wide open for you
Do it
I was already planning on it. Let’s slice her up 😼
Hey fella
Let’s fucking keep clowning on France, yeah?
He can’t fight you off from north and me off from south
Let’s do it
Hell yah bruh
Excellent work dude.  What’re you thinking you’re going to do with that army in France???
No clue yet. Germany is knocking at my door.
Have you talked to Germany at all today?
He’s incommunicado
Same lol.  Sucks bc a lot is obviously up in the air depending on what he does...but let’s give him some time to respond to us and try to take things from there.
Ok
I obviously have a vested interest in you putting full court press on France...which requires further coordination with Germany...just keep me in the loop on how I can support.
The only thing preventing that is Germany. Let’s work on him together
On Germany or France you mean???
Work on Germany I mean.
How?  I’ll be honest, feels like we’re still a bit too far apart...and tbqh, I can’t fight Germany AND France at the same time lol.
I mean diplomatically
Ok what do you have in mind?  I’ll be honest- not really trying to stab Germany, who has been good to me, but I’ll hear you out.
You’re completely misunderstanding me. I’m talking about convincing Germany to lay off of me and join against France. Possibly turn on Russia too.
Ohhhh damn my bad!  Sorry dude!  Totally my mistake.
Yeah word I would like that very much.  Obviously I’m putting a lot of stock in the anti-France effort- and obviously that is near-impossible if Germany ain’t down.
Let’s both lobby him on it.
Yes
Had the chance to feel Germany out yet?
Nada
Any move decisions yet?  I have an ask for you but idk how realistic it is
I heard from Germany
What’s your ask?
Attack Paris (is my ask)
How’d talks with Germany go?
Well he sounds committed to supporting you into Marseilles. I asked him to support me into Paris and he said no. It seems there was a discord glitch which is why he stabbed.
Ugh sometimes my messages aren’t going through bc it says I haven’t pressed thumbs up.  Hasn’t happened to anything big yet but I see it.
So what’re you going to do with that army?
I’m still nervous about him. I asked him to take Sweden and he hasn’t answered yet. I won’t interfere with you taking Marseilles, don’t worry.
Well it would be much more a sure thing if you could attack Paris
I’ll try to finagle Germany on your behalf
Can you provide him assurances you’d give him a lion’s share of the France builds?  I think it would go a long way to securing his cooperation
Are we allowed to group chat?
We should work out the slicing together.
I suggested you take marseille and Spain, I take Brest and Portugal and he gets Paris and Belgium
I don’t think we can!  Which sucks but ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
We can’t what, split up like that?
Yeah, me and Germany can’t come to terms.
No no I mean talk in a group
That split sounds fair to me tbqh
Ok man- this is what I’m gonna propose- if you attack Paris and I take Marseilles- and I mean, what else are you really gonna do with that army?- I will fight like hell to give you two builds during france’s collapse
Ok- per Germany’s suggestion I am mediating between you two.  What is this North Sea dispute ?
We’re going to DMZ it
But I want to do it next season so I can convoy into Norway.
Ok he says y’all are talking again
I stand ready to support
What’s the good word my dude
Me and Germany are iffy
He’s being cagey but we’ll see what happens
So at this point I’m accepting that the england/Germany relationship will need to be worked out beyond this turn
Trying here
My question is- bc it has relevance for my naval moves- what’s that army in Picardy doing???
No no I hear you
I can support later
But moves are due in 10. We need to worry about the here and now rn.
I’m concerned you and Germany are plotting against me
Absolutely not.
If we’re going to knock France out we need to be a team.
I agree
Ok, I’ll hit Paris.
I mean, I’d ask how I know you and Germany aren’t plotting against ME, but at some level I trust y’all not to be pulling that
Excellent.
If I take Marseilles, you have secured my future cooperation and goodwill.
I hope you and Germany can live together for the next few turns.
What did he agree to do?  Asking so I can hold him to shit next turn if he doesn’t do it
My man.  Owe you.  Won’t forget your help here.
Waitttt...what’s up with this “supports Paris into burgundy” order?
That you gave your army in Picardy?
Complete oversight. I had my orders like that before we came to our agreement. Between talking to you and Germany and Austria AND my gf last night I forgot to change them up. My bad.
No worries, I believe you- not sure Germany will tho.  Probably worth talking to him.
Are you talking with france at all?
Nothing with France
Germany asked me the same thing and I explained.
I hope he believes me.
Ay you around???
Yes
whats up?
Germany got fuckin big huhhh
Iiiii’m not sure how much I like it
That is the subject that I wished to discuss
how do we  bring him down?  austria is talking to me about the same thing
We need a united front first and foremost
Obviously
I built that unit in Venice as leverage on Austria to secure his cooperation against Germany lol
Yo- MAO- how do I get there to take Portugal lol
if you recall, i was supposed to get brest and portugal, you were supposed to get marsielles and spain and Germany was supposed to get paris and Belgium
so i should ask you, how do I get into MAO to take portugal?
You gonna support me into Portugal or what?
(Or wherever you bounced me from, idc to look it up)
What’s in it for me, after you’ve already bounced me out of Marseilles?
we don't let germany win
How does you taking Portugal keep Germany from winning
And how does it help me specifically
You’re gonna have a rough time taking Portugal without me...prepared to let you have it if I get Marseilles back
We have a deal. Gotta kill France
👍🏻
Vacate Marseilles and then next turn I’ll help you kill France
Deal?
There is no next turn
This is the last move
No I think it’s fall 1909
So winter 1909 next right?
It’s actually inconsequential who takes what as neither of us can top the board. The only thing that matters is the we kick France
(Apologies if im being dumb and missing something)
Yeah but I’m still not doing this for free bruh
I gotta go in 2 or so hours so we should probably figure this out sooner rather than later
Update I have Marseilles and I’m happy
Wanna talk France?
put me in portugal
We can do that
Good with waiting til next turn?  So I know you won’t stab me?
Why did you keep France on the board?
He gets paid out now
Boneheaded play
1) I think we still have another turn to knock him out?
2) you didn’t respond to my messages earlier?  Where I asked if I could wait a turn to attack him?
It’s not over now?
I did respond
I said we should move on it now
I didn’t thumbs up or thumbs down it 😦
So it didn’t send
Oh wow, looks like we have one more chance to knock France out, exactly like I was saying
I’m attacking Portugal from Spain- support me from mao and we’ll knock him out
Heyyyy Turkey
Whatcha thinking re: start of the game?
It kind of depends. I'll probably want to stop Russia from advancing south
I'm kind of afraid of Austria and Russia teaming together on me
I mean if that happens you’re donezos
What vibes are you getting from each of them?
Austria seems very knowledgeable
Russia has been silent so far
Lots of silence in this game lol
Is Austria pushing you for anything?
Go hard on Russia, I guess.
Lol I’m sure
Whelp, I’m off to bed, but lmk if you see any opportunities to collaborate in the early game
Night!
Either he does that and that's fine with me, or he turns around and goes for me. Either way we can be prepared?
Rgr
Where are you looking to go? Tunisia or greecy perhaps?
Tunisia prolly
Why?
I need to consider whether greece is up for grabs or not. Depends on what austria is doing too
I have no sense what austria is up to lol
What did he tell you?
like he'd tell me if he was gonna attack me lol
what did he tell you?
temporary non-aggression, but limited other discussion
Heyyyy guy
What’re you thinking re: next turn?
I still want to attack Russia but it does seem like Austria may be able to grab a lot of supply in the Balkans. I don't think either of us are beniftted by an overly strong Austria so it would be prudent to  come to some terms with Austria there
Looks like things have been fine for you so far, but now you've got to pick a side. I am expecting F Ion - Eas which I will not allow.
Even if you were to make it through to turkey, you'd have 1, maybe 2 command centers far away from home, whereas Austria has 4-5 more in the Balkans with Constantinople.
I think things are definitely not fine for me, honestly
Austria is wayyyy too strong rn...I should’ve stabbed him when I had the chance
Believe me that between him and France, I’m not trying to start shit with you
Don’t want to promise anything rn- too early for that, talk to me after builds- but Austria is gonna have to build something in Trieste, so I officially have bigger fish to fry
Maybe you will able to broker a deal with France and refocus on Austria?
France fucking barely talks to me!  Are you getting any vibes from him???
I'm willing to back you up on that. You probably cannot prevent a build in Marseille but Pie offers decent cover.
I'm on decent footing with France.
The real issue for me is Russia, have you talked to him?
Incredibly limited convo...he said he “wanted to go north”
Which I’m betting he regrets now lol
Yes, I'll see if we can come to an agreement. There is no way I'm going to beat him with 1 army anyway.
Look- build what you’re gonna build.  But I’m not gunning for you.
What are your plans for builds?
Lol what’re yours?
I do plan to build a fleet in Smy.
I'll believe you if you don't build a fleet in Naples
Whyever would you do that.
Building a fleet in your south screams, “I’m coming after Tunis”
You just said yourself you need more armies!
To stop F Ion - Eas
Most of the Balkans on my side are fleet-accessible
But I’m not going to do that!!!
And it doesn’t help you with Russia in the north.
How should I know?
If you build a fleet there, I have to assume it’s going after me.
I think I’ve made a reasonable case on why I have other stuff to worry about aside from attacking you!
I'm not quite sure what a single fleet is going to do when Austria is literally 2 spaces away from Con
The black sea strait does not allow me to use armies to their advantage. Fleets are better
Honestly, I probably need to build a fleet or army in Venice...if only to keep Austria from fucking me, bc he’s obviously building in Trieste.  I don’t want to do that though, but I don’t see alternatives.
Why no fleet in Ankara then?  That’s much less threatening to me
I have two builds but I still need to decide what to build there
If it’s a fleet we will have Problems
I'm sorry but it's gonna happen anyway if I don't want to open myself to a massive stab by you.
Not trying to threaten!  Just communicating how I’m gonna see that build if you do it.
Ok, I mean we don’t have much more to talk about then.
What really matters is what I'm going to do with the fleet. There's no way for me to move F Eas - Ion unless you vacate that. Even so, I need those fleets supporting my push into the balkans
Dude, it feels like you’re making a lot of demands but not offering me much.
You’ll build a fleet there...and you’re telling me where I can’t move...what do I get?
(Hopping in the shower post gym rn but will be back online in a few mjn)
Any pressure from my side on Austria helps your side against Austria too.
This will keep Austria's armies in Ser and Bud occupied
I mean that “rising tides lift all boats” stuff ain’t good enough
If you build a fleet in the south you force me to treat you like a threat
And good luck fighting Russia, Austria, and me
I don’t want that though!  But I don’t see other options if you make that build.
What would you suggest?
Build an army there, not a fleet
Then we gucci
I'm working out some scenarios so just give me a second
Rgr
I’m around
Fair enough, I do not see scenarios where you backstab and still have the upper hand against Austria
Sorry for being so distrustful
Backstab who?  I’m confused lol
Well, I'm consdering you convoying A Tun - Smy for example
but I'm glad that won't be an issue 😃
Why the FUCKKKK would I do that lol
You are too paranoid for someone fighting a two front ear lol
*war
I’m confused...what’re you intentions re: fleet Vice army build?
I'll build an army in Smy
Rgr!!!
Glad we could work this out.
If you can go to Alb with your army in tunesia I can then try to support an attack on Greece later
Hmmmm lemme look at the board real quick and think
I'm not sure if you have other plans, but I would like to think ahead a little bit to see what we can do.
Maybe we should talk post- builds- I’m not saying no but I gotta see how france’s builds shake out
Happy to game things out rn tho!
Specifically, if you do F Ion S A Alb - Gre, it is unlikely Austria will be able to stop that given that I'll be pushing for Rum and Bul if necessary
So what's the plan from here?
What is your plan with F Eas?
Honestly not sure!  Thinking of bringing it into the Aegean and using it to support somebody.  Do you have ideas?
Yeah I think moving to Aegaen would be very helpful. I could then help you get into greece afterwards as well, if I can get Bul
Still, it's looking like Austria will get at least +1 build
I'm not quite sure what to do. I think I can survive a year or two but maybe not more
Yeah you’re in a tough spot.  What motivated your decision to go after Russia?
I was playing along with Austria. Plus then i gambled he'd F Sev - Bla so I could just move in with A arm - sev.
Also he was not being communicative and was only moving north so I had assumed he was allied with Austria (& he confirmed it only now)
Anyway, I'd be cool to sit it out for a few turns with 4-5 CP but I think Austria will continue pressuring me.
Brb- going to grab dinner
So idk if it makes any difference re: your build but honestly I’d be happy with smy and I’d leave you alone after that.  Just saying!
I'm not sure what your intended outcome here is though. Sure, smy is nice but the rest would belong to austria, which means he has 9 command centers and you have 6 (if you can hold Mar)
10, actually.
I'm happy to cooperate but you need to show some goodwill first
I’m a little confused here- what can you offer me?
I’m a lil pissed at Austria rn, but I don’t see what you bring to the table
If nothing else, a common enemy
It would be fairly easy for us to destroy Austria's fleet together, for example
Ok I’m listening- how?
I’m salty at ol austria/hungry but idk if we can turn the tide
I should’ve stabbed him when I had the chance
I can support F Eas - Aeg with two ships. If you move F Tys - Ion then it would be disbanded. But it's fall so he can rebuild. You'd need to wait untill spring
Or if you don't wish to go so far, going F Eas-Ion would free me up  a little to move my fleet out and then we can attack from both sides
Hmmm looking at nap now
Nah I don’t like that last idea
He’ll know I’m gunning for him and he can maybe take Venice
Then in spring we can go for greece for example
Lemme evaluate idea 1
Seems reasonable to me to withdraw the fleet if you need it against france
After all, there isn't much hope of you getting Smy
Man even in idea 1
If that fleet gets disbanded bc of me he judtcrebuilds it next to Venice
And then I’m fucked
Right?  Am I missing something?
Well, yeah. You just gotta play it cool for fall and then go for him in spring.
Given that Germany is moving east, I'm not sure he can handle three fronts. Plus he's got 2/3 of his dudes knocking on my door already
To no avail- your door is locked pretty tight lol
Is Germany moving against him?
I think he's going for Russia but surely he must not want that. They've been allied too
Ugh
So- I guess we’ll revisit next turn?
When he’s a bit farther from builds and I can get a build so I have an army in Venice?
I'd try to your army in tunis moved to mainland so that your ships are freed up
I mean, he can't do anything with 1 army against your 1
If he moves troops away from the balkans he loses his stuff there.
There’s just no way to get it there quickly yknow?
If I do that and he gets a build this turn he sees where I’m going
And it’s game over
Convoy from tunis, then you can move from Rom to Ven
Even if he builds 1 in Tri, you can block the move to Ven with 1 army while you move your ships
Yeah but then if he wants he can bring a fleet to fuck me and stillcgold thecline againdtcyou
It’s just not the right time this turn
(Not drunk- just on my phone and typing quickly lol)
Again, what is 1 fleet gonna do. At the very least you equal him in fleets and then there's me.
Moreover, if he builds a fleet he cannot protect Vie from germany
Unless they have a deal somehow
His one fleet plus one army in Trieste against one army of mine in Rome= I lose Venice
It’s not just a matter of who has what it’s where that stuff is, yknow
Where's this second unit gonna come from? He will only get 1 build
He can take his fleet from Greece real quick
https://www.backstabbr.com/sandbox/5727111032078336 Here's a worst case scenario where I don't do _anything_ and he moves to albania in spring
Ok, admittely A Ser -Tri would be worse, but that's still not enough to punch through
Uhhh lemme think about it man
I’m just nervous
He is Strong and geography favors him
Italy has a very strong defensive position
Hey Italy, what's up?
I think very soon you, me and england will need to band together or Germany will simply roll over all of us
I’m with you 110%- the hun has grown strong
It’s a matter of survival clearly
What’re you thinking?
You gotta come to terms with england somehow
Why do I have to do that?
Fair enough, I think both england and germany are pretty neck-to-neck to win this winter
Yeah I mean it’s over soon ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
It is kinda sad
Was hoping to make a come back but didn't get the time
Maybe you can kick out france, still?
if england supports you
England has, tbqh, been a bit of a dick in these closing moves
I’ve told him that I’m attacking Portugal and he’s welcome to support me so we’ll see what he does ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
(Also, Yeah- you were in a tough fucking spot and you didn’t give up and you played it masterfully- respect my dude 💯)
He's going hard for the win.
Burning all bridges
Thanks for the compliment 🙂
Nah man it’s true!  Would’ve been easy to tune out or make a suboptimal move but you held on as long as you needed to.
Yeah, I figured I just needed on ally and Austria would lose... Took a  while
And yeah- he berated me for not helping him taking France out, despite the fact that I said we had a turn left to do it
Which, I get why everyone wants France gone, but it’s not *that* much money lol
Also, it's the better move for you to go this turn, so you don't have to protect spain & por
I also noted your army in Tun the whole game. You should've tried to use it :p
I think if you had convoyed it to Syr I would've had some big issues much earlier
(If you recall)
I think the  fact that austria committed so hard on beating me, but not being able to do it, cost him the game
Yeah I think you’re right re: Austria!!!
And dang that would’ve been smart
Yeah I meant to convoy him up to Spain but it never ended up working out
Huge waste of resources
shit, I should've asked you to support me into Tri then I would've been tied with germany I think
because england failed at defense
Dang
Lol England tho
Maybe running around calling people idiots isn’t the best policy idk
He barely talked to me
Gahhh I’m Italy fuck my life
Non aggression pact for these first two turns?  Seems to me we both have other things to work about.  Lmk what you’re thinking.
Sounds good with me
Cool.  So no moves towards each other?
Yeah that's right. I'm not moving into Piedmont
Rgr- neither will I
Sounds good with me
You can take Tunis and we can demilitarize the Western Med area while we deal with our more pressing concerns
For sure man.  I think we got other stuff going on lol
Was that bounce with France on purpose?
*germany my b
I thought he;d move into Ruhr like normal, but it wasnt too bad for me
Should’ve stabbed austria
Fu kkk I’m so screwed
If you send your armies west uou don’t have to be
I’ve no desire for an internecine conflict
Cool cool I’m tracking.  You’re probably going after Germany then?
Hey what’s up
Hey Germany! Looking forward to this game! You doing well this afternoon?
Yes! Very well. How about yourself?
Pretty well.  A little tired, it's almost 10pm for me.  Where you from?
Philadelphia originally! Working in DC. How about you?
Maine, where in DC are you? Who are you working for?
I was in DC last year and have a bunch of friends there right now
Maine is beautiful! I used to go to scout camp there.
I work at a think tank.
Glad you got to check out the city. Philly is still my home, but I’m really enjoying DC.
Which think tank? I was at the Hudson Institute
No way! AEI
Really cool, that's awesome! What sort of policy work?
Education policy actually. How about you?
Housing policy
Very cool.
Yeah, it's a lot of fun.  Miss DC though, have a bunch of friends down there having fun without me
So what are your plans for the game?
The board has been frustratingly quiet so far
Yes I know! People are probably busy with the work week.
Same here, but it's a slow day
I’m still figuring out my plans... I have some ideas but I’m waiting before locking anything in. How about you?
I'm siding with whoever I've heard back from honestly.  The board seems particularly inexperienced at Diplomacy, from what I can tell
Same here honestly. Who have you heard from?
England, like two lines.  Italy a bunch, Turkey a little, Russia a little
England, like two lines.  Italy a bunch, Turkey a little, Russia a little
I just accidentally lied to you so I'm resending as the truth lolll. This emoji thing sucks at times
Italy seems like a cool dude
Yeah lol I had a bit of a learning curve with it
It says “You MUST select an emoji for your message to send” so I was attaching like smiley faces lol
I’m hoping me you and Italy can get along so I can focus on France
That's the plan!
Dope
Hey Austria! I wanted to take your temperature for your plan this turn.
Hey! Not sure yet, if you're online in an hour let's talk then.  What up with you and Russia?
Hey just got back
ok
Thoughts on Russia?
Idk. I’m probably going to let him take Sweden as long as we agree on him not attacking Ber
Idk if I can trust that he would and I cannot afford to lose it obviously
I wouldn't give him sweden if I were you
Why?
Regardless of if he keeps his word with Ber (and he has no real reason to), he has three units up north and there is nowhere productive for them to go either than retreat or back into you.  The more builds he has that he can commit up north, the more he can just overwhelm you
Well he could go south. He could focus on Turkey
He can in theory, but look where his units are.  It will take three moves before any of them are in play.  Three moves.  That will be the start of 1903.
You talking with Italy?
A little!
What did he ask for?
What are chats like with England and France?
I've heard very little
A truce for the first few turns
Do you have a deal with Russia? I don’t understand why he didn’t War>Gal
Sorry, people will know who I am when they see my Prof pic
Probably smart
I wonder if I know any of you guys IRL
Could you move on France here?
Not at the moment. Not with Russia breathing down my neck. Do you have a deal with Russia?  Its hard to imagine he chose not to War>Gal without working something out with you.
My deal with Russia is that he's an idiot.  I'm moving on him here.  Just block him is Sweden and make my job easier.  I'm trying to cripple him to help you out a bit
He can't even convoy from Lvn. He just doeant know what he's doing
I think so too. But I can’t risk him taking Ber so I’m going Mun > Ber. I’m happy to help out and bounce Russia in Sweden.
Thanks
He said he's moving back to War here this turn btw, so don't overcommit too hard
Thanks for the tip. Better safe than sorry.
Losing Ber this early would be too damaging to risk.
Mun > Ruh would give me opportunity to be a bigger player in the west.
My best guess with Russia is that he moves Pru> Ber Lyn>War
What are you thinking with Italy and Turkey?
Agree with you on all counts.
Italy is communicative and I like him. Turkey is uncommunicative
Do you and Italy have something worked out as well?
I’m with you on Italy. You two are the countries I have the best relationship with at this point.
So Berlin huh?
Kind of a petty thing not to tell the truth about
Me?
I changed my mind at the last second based on what you told me
Sorry if that upsets your plans?!?
No I just wished that we were upfront.  This is a small thing but I want to be able to trust you throughout the game
Hey man I totally understand and that’s my bad.
Largely because you told me he was going to Warsaw and he said the same thing literally (I mean literally) in the last minute I changed my move
Like I really don’t want any issues here
And I don’t think the move to Ruh hurts you unless you’re going after me next turn. I’m a little worried because you have two builds near me
Definitely a gamble on my end with Ruh tho but since you and Russia told me the same thing I took a chance with it.
Tbh I didn’t even think about what I told you because it wasn’t like we were planing something together with regard to that move
It isn't going at you.  Austria and Germany rarely attack each other.
Right that’s what I’m hoping too
I'm not mad at you, just concerned for the future.  Can we commit to sharing those updates.  I change little moves or messages based on what's going on and I want to have info as accurate as possible
So we're cool?
absolutely. It was a last minute gut call, based on your intel. I will be sure to keep you abreast of any changes I make going forward. I really appreciate you saying something, because when I made that move the intel I told you didn’t cross my mind at all when it should have.
The West is concerning, although you should get Bel next turn
Thanks again for understanding.
Yes but I have to work something out with France first
Sure thing.  What are we doing going forward? f and e are quite strong
I think my best path is the ally with France and break england
Agreed
E should not have gotten Bel here
Not for free
Yes it’s true. Committed to bounce bur with France slowed me down in doing anything about it, but it was worth it to show France i can be a trustworthy partner
Can you get France moving up towards England? e needs to go
That’s what I’m working on. Have you talked to France much? Seems a bit curt
A bit.  I think I know him
Yeah chances are we all probably know someone else here
The convoy was flashy but marooned an army.  We'll see
Get him to build up towards Eng please
Sure thing Chief. Thanks again for understanding. My experience with this game is almost all gunboat so I am still getting used to some of the dynamics of alliances.
Sure thing.  I'm working magic around the board.  Russia is moving south against T and France should be going with you
Excellent news!!
Go easy on Russia for a bit.  I need him against Turkey
Will do.
I’m building an army in Mun and a fleet in Kiev
Just a heads up
sounds like a plan
Thanks
F Tri, A Vie
10-4
You know what Italy is planning to do here?
I think he wants to go after France
Idk anything specific
I think England and France might be working together here
Considering the bounced the channel
Kk, thanks.  Just curious
Hmmm
Not sure I like that
You may need Italy to help keep France in check, not sure
Have you asked him?
Here’s my moves as of now. They are still subject to change I just want you to know my tentative plans.
K>Hel, Denmark supporting Russia into Sweden, Ruhr into Belgium with Hol support, Mun > bur
Looks good.  What are you asking from Russia in return for the Sweden support?
Basically he won’t attack me and focus on Turkey
Also the only real alternative is leaving Sweden open for England
You could strongarm him into making him give it to you
"You aren't going to do well if you're being attacked from the North and the South, so give me Sweden and I'll lay off you for the game"
Hmmm good idea
Make Russia give me Sweden?
Russia didn’t get back to me. My orders are still set to support him.
Just an fyi
K
I don’t mind helping if it keeps England away
I can still switch to bouncing Russia.
I prefer Russia not be too strong in the south, which is undoubtably where he will use that build
How do I benefit from knocking him out early tho? I’m happy with nonaggression on my eastern front
He can keep turkey busy
He was a good dude to me by not taking ber
Don't know him out.  I still need him.  Just not overly strong
I recommend bouncing him and taking Sweden for yourself.  When he goes down, and he will, he'll burn his units up north since he's being invaded from the south
You'd much rather have your own unit up there
Not being burned
Fair. Do you think I can take and hold Belgium?
I could also do k > bal and lock in sweden in the fall
Then pivot to taking the North Sea next year
Project power
Strength is King here
Bal is a little misdirected. I recommend Belgium
So what should I do with the fleet in Kiev
What are the chances that England goes to STP here?
Idk we’re not really talking
That would be more problematic than anything
Maybe hope that England and Russia bounce Swe and go F Den-Ska F Kie-Den
Yeah that could be sharp. Gives me ground to take Scandinavia or the North Sea
Mhm
Are you helping Italy into Mar here?
I can
But we haven’t discussed
I guess I’m basically dead to england and France with that last turn so
You're not.  I have you back in chat and Italy is coming
Help him and we'll help you
Done
Yeah I think I have to throw england to the wind
Hey man what are you thinking?
It looks like France, Russia and turkey are all gonna have problems
I'm working my way north and working some magic on France and England
Let me know how I can ever assist you Diplomatically
So
I basically have to choose
Like right now
To come to terms with england or to make a deal with France.
France is dead
I won't make your decision for you, but use that information as you will
Obviously you’re more experienced at this than I am, but an Anglo-Germanic alliance is tough to pull off.
I'm saying France is dead and recommend going after England
If Italy takes most of F, there won't be any left for you
And you have the positional jump on England right now given your moveset
Ah
I see
Your call, but I really want to see you succeed here
What moves do you recommend
Take the North Sea, support yourself in Belgium and let Italy into Mar
You get a build here for that additional fleet next year
If I take the North Sea, and France take the channel, england is in big big trouble.
Move SKA to North Sea?
No, Denmark
Why?
You'll need to keep Ska because it borders Nwy/Swe/NTH
Those are all key
Plus if you build a fleet in the winter you want it in Denmark next year
So Denmark needs to be open
Russia will hold in Sweden, he needs to in order to get that build
Should I tell him, “it’s been good trying to work this out but I don’t think I can agree to these terms. Sorry and best of luck”
It sucks. I would have loved to work something out with england but I don’t think it’s workable for more than a year or two :/
You need to grow and you and England are directly opposed and vying for the same territory
Don't feel bad, this is part of the game
You can do this!
So just knife him or tell him hey I don’t don’t we have a deal here, I’m sorry.
Don't talk if it's not productive
If he gets back to you with a good deal, go for it
But don't lose your advantage here
What would that look like?
He's messaging me now
Like a good deal with england?
You get all of Scandinavia
That's a start
And he moves on France
But long term he wants to move through Russia?
I suppose he still can through the North Sea
Right
Sorry that was incorrect
Norwegian
Yes, but he needs Norway to do that.
Norwegian Sea to Barents Sea
Double convoy. Not that hard
Also, he doesn't know this but he's not getting any of Russia
So that fish is dead in the watee
You’re gonna take the whole thing?
Also also, if he goes for Russia he'll basically have surrounded you. I'm not sure why you'd want that
Turkey may take a lot
He's closer than I
So keep my orders set to take the North Sea, and invade from Holland next turn?
I suggest it
You'll have three fleets next year too
So you'll be fine
I have to run
You should join the Diplomacy Nexus server though!
https://discord.gg/P5vyvz8
Thanks!
I kinda want another build tho
Sweden is hard to pass up
I’m planning on moving on Warsaw FYI
Ah, I was too.  What's the intent behind the Warsaw move?
Trying to snag another build and Paris looks far from a lock
You don't want to Hedgehog here, focus on England
If you get too far ahead, people will be tempted to gang up on you
Can you let Turkey know that you just heard from me that I'm supporting Italy to Smyrna?
Keep it discrete as if the information was leaked and you're trying to share it to help him
Are you actually supporting Italy into Smyrna?
Yeah
Just couldn't that turn
Should I not be?
I don’t have any strong feelings. I like Italy a lot, but I also like Turkey.
Turkey is dead here.  Unfortunately it looks like England will grab up most of Russia's remains with this moveset
What are you thinking this turn?
Would you be open to supporting me into War?
I need Gal to support myself in Rum.  You really need to be going after England here, I'm not sure why you've shifted east
This is going to throw off the triple I've set up
You still there?
You're about to really hurt yourself.  England has nowhere to go now. Turkey is solidified, you and Italy will split France.  There is no option but for England to attack you
You still playing?
Yeah dude.
I’m thinking over what you said.
I really want to make sure we don't screw up here.  I've been on your side all game.  Don't get too close with England, you, me, and Italy are stronger together
So what’s going on with you?
Yeah that army in Vienna unnerves me a bit, not going to lie.
I thought you and England were coming for me and you didn't respond to my messages lol
I tried
Okay. No worries. That’s my bad for not responding. I’ve been out of town for a week with work, so I haven’t been playing as intently (working 14 hour days 😵)
Yikes I hate that
Yeah dude. Basically slept all weekend
Where do you work?
AEI - didn’t you say you used to work at a think thank?
Oh shit yeah
Sorry I talk with too many people are sometimes forget.  Where were you travelling?
No worries! I was helping run a conference in Charlotte NC
Who was there?
That's awesome!
Thanks man. I would prefer to not get into the details of it if that’s cool, it was a semi-private event.
Sure, no worries.
I just finished lunch break, but we can talk this evening
Sounds good man. Looking forward to it.
Need to sleep, sorry about the wait. Can we confirm?
No worries
Confirm what exactly?
That I don't hate you and vice versa :)
That would be a good start
Would love to talk about a takedown of England here though
Yeah for sure
Happy to listen 😃
Can you get your units in position for takes of Norway and STP? That's two SCs for you and I can help you with Warsaw in the fall goes well and we adhere to our agreements
Idk. I’m not looking to expand past Warsaw and Paris this turn. Not trying to pick an unnecessary fight, forcing me to defend more territory than I have units to do so successfully
I'm not sure you're getting Paris from how England was talking
WhAt did he say,
I asked him what he thought about you and he said he was nervous you were getting too big and you may need to be slowed down
Norway isn't much of a stretch and you'll be weakening England here, your only real enemy
If I hit england than I have to defend my entire northern theatre. I can take two more SCs this turn without kicking over any logs.
Except for me and England.  You're going to get too big for comfort, and the continuation of your working with England is a threat to me
You're already making the both of us nervous, and you wouldn't want to push it
I prefer to stay neutral between the two of you, and Italy for that matter.
Right, but it's about how people percieve you.  You can take all the neutral centers you want, but the larger you are, the bigger the threat you are. England and Italy and I feel the pressure already.  I don't have a problem with you yet, but you need to turn on England here, as the chance of you two working together will require both Italy and I to stop what we're doing and respond to the threat you two pose
I'm trying to share this in your best interest
If I’m not mistaken, we have the same number of units?
I don’t tell you to lay off Turkey.
Or to go after Italy
You're in a better position right now.
And you have free available centers- two center jump
And no true enemies for this one turn
All those add up to make you far more dangerous.  It's not just about SC counts
That’s true. I’m trying to keep it that way (no enemies).
I really do appreciate you being honest with me.
Right, but you'll go from 0 to 3 if you misplay this one.  This is critical. I really want to see you succeed here and our central triple to remain intact. I've put a lot of work into this one
I suggest managing your front so you have just one enemy in front of you, rather than 3 on all sides
:) I'm glad
Is there a way you can be comfortable a move set that doesn’t involve turning in England? He got spoked that I accidentally went into Ska.
He needs to be spooked.  Where do you think that army in LVP is going this turn?
In Edinburgh?
It's not going south
Right it’s going Norway
It's convoying across to Norway, and after that either through Scandinavia or into Russia. Warsaw will be the first SC he takes back
That army is a recognition of the threat you pose. Please please please realize that
While you're being nice to him, he's planning his attack
You think he’ll turn on me?
That army can go nowhere but against your border
It would be one thing if he was moving on a defenseless France
But it's not, he's headed North
That's your domain. You need to start defending and thinking long term
I’m going to remain neutral this turn but I will revisit in the fall based on how my neighbors move.
Jesus.  I'm already moving against England this turn.  This is so frustrating to me. I'm trying to help you out and you're going to start hurting the both of us
Look at the board and see the moves being set up
He will have his front against you far before you'll be able to react to it
I hope that does not imply and bad blood between us, I just have to be up early tomorrow. If he moves against me or does something looking suspicious I’ll revisit it tomorrow.
Well, I'm clearly wrong about England, but I still think it's the wrong moveset
You still there?
Yes, hey!
Should we make the 10 pm chat a regular thing? 😂
Hahahah
Little late for me, ready for bed
I'm in bed. The last chat killed me last night lol
But I felt too strongly to let it go rip
Lol no worries- what’s going on tn? I don’t have any interesting moves set, just defense
I hate to sound like a broken record, but you can take Norway here with literally no repercussions
Btw rumour has it that you’re a nationally ranked player... is that so?
Do you know what England is doing with Moscow?
But that's your call
Not interested, sorry.
Not for certain, no.
Don't trust water cooler talk :)
Is that a no?
I've played a lot of Diplomacy and run a top Diplomacy site.  I'm sure there are better players than me out there
Makes sense!
In a perfect world, you would talk Moscow at no cost to yourself, just to cut a potential support
Can you find out what's going on with Moscow? I would really not like him to hit Sev
I can ask. I sent eng a couple messages in the last hour and haven’t heard back :/
I have too.  Would you be open to tapping Moscow for me if you don't hear back?
Because I'm not hearing back from England, I may take Moscow here so I don't lose a center to Turkey.  Hopefully this gives you the ammunition you need to go after England yourself
Thoughts for this turn?
I think you can win or lose on this one right here
How’s that?
Not sure how long we're playing or if you're looking at stalemate lines, but you're pretty damn close to the NS stalemate line and the board lead
Too close for comfort ❤
😉
So what are you saying?
I'm not telling you how to win 😂
I don’t see how I am going to win? I’m in the center of the board. You are almost as strong as me, and will be stronger once you destroy turkey.
Turkey isn't going down any time soon, even slower if the two of us can't work something out tonight and I have to move back up nothing
Also, you've discovered the golden Diplomacy trick, just insist you're not strong and hope others believe you
What would it look like for us to work something out?
back up north*
It depends.  Your builds aren't particularly friendly towards me or England, and I think he's finally spooked
I don’t blame him.
So we can start with that.  What is your intention with the two army builds?
I’ll be honest it’s not madly thought through
I can’t go north
I can’t go anywhere
All I can do is scare the pants off everyone
You managed 😂
I've been in conversations all day
Anything interesting?
Mostly England asking me to pull off Turkey and move North against you
THat was the most substantive
Is that true? I’m not sure if I believe that. Are you baiting me into attacking England?
I can't share screenshots apparently, but that's true.  It's not just ENgland
You and I are the big players here, and Italy asked me to do the same
So why don't we, as the big players, take control of ourselves
and run the board the way we want, without the undue influence of the other players
I mean... I could be interested but I need some clarity
I’m weary. Frankly I understand you are a very gifted player and I’m nervous about my odds of winning a one on one versus you.
I've been talking a lot and have a vision of the board that you don't seem to buy into.  Why don't you start with sharing your perfect setup.  Obviously it's a win, but where do you pick up your centers?  We don't have to be at odds here.  If I win, it's because I take out Germany and Italy.  What is your ideal scenario?
I'm gifted because I spend time on conversations like this.  Most players don't.  The moveset of Diplomacy is pretty simple.  Akin to checkers.  I'm terrible at the Cold War 1v1 varient 😄 ;D
Hmmm
You’re also a verrrrrry smooth talker
For all I know you’ve already set up a massive plan to attack me
Hey man, I’m gonna be away from my phone for 30 min
You far overestimate me [redacted] lol
Who is this?!
hmmm ok.  Moves process in less than two hours
Wait a second
Woah
You just dropped a big thing there
The point is, you can trust me
NO I CANT?!?? I have no idea who you are lol
And you know who I am
That’s like literally the opposite of trust lol
Faith then
Idk anyone who lives in Maine or works at Hudson
This is legit creepy not gonna lie
*worked at Hudson whatever
This is having the opposite effect
I didn't work there, I was an intern
The point is that we need to work something out asap.
Yes definitely
I mean if I knew who you were then I would feel much more comfortable and far more likely to work something out
You talked it Italy
you talked to Italy lol
Yeah dude I’m so freaked out rn
That's what Italy just said lol
Idk who else to talk to this is like actually freaking me out
Like irl
Like I’m really freaked
Dear God.
This is kinda distracting.  You'll find out who I am after the game
Dude but you know who I am RN
like wtf
How long have you played Diplomacy?
Definitely not used to being like doxed online lol
I mean like I’ve mostly played gunboat so I’m not used to the this dynamic
I hope you are like a buddy of mine IRL so we can laugh about this in a week but rn I’m just like WTF
You're not being doxed, you don't have to worry
It’s like okay dude but it doesn’t feel chill to me that you have a face to a country and I don’t
Do you actually know me IRL or did you just like figure out who I was through tracing an email address or something?
This is kind of a waste of our time.  We can laugh this off when the game is over
goddammit
Idk man it’s just like
Kinda Erie from my POV
who knows I might not like you IRL
Lmfao
Or you could be a close buddy idk
But either way
I HATE the dynamic of you knowing who I am IRL and me being in the dark
You'll know my real name and all kinds of shit about me later, let's play the game right now
Yeah dude I’m sorry but that gambit really backfired
I want to work with you here, let's start with that as a building block
not it didn't
It fundamentally creates an uneven and uneasy dynamic between me and you.
I DO NOT feel comfy with it.
I know
This has happened to me before
Sorry. I’m sure you’re a great dude but I don’t like this. It definitely did not create trust, just totally broke it.
How long have you known? How did you know? Who are you irl?
Now these thoughts will supersede any thing you say
Sorry
We didn't have trust before.  You thought we had trust.  This is foundational to the mirage of Diplomacy
And now you understand
When you call me a good player or a smooth talker, you know nothing about me or my gameplay style
So now that we've broken the pieces, we start from the beginning
I have to run now.  This was a very frustrating end to a good day
Sorry man but you brought this on yourself
I'm a little surprised you're surprised.  You put your name publicly on discord and shared what you do for work and where you are on any given weekend
I could have found out your name in three different ways
Hopefully we’ll laugh about this in the future
Not nearly as creepy as the guy that looked me up on facebook and knows my girlfriend's name
ok
Someone in this current game?
No
Nobody has the capacity nor cares enough to dox you man
Sorry bro, you made a calculation and you were wrong.
I don't believe I am now
Maybe this was all part of your plan. Idk, idc.
You’re really smart and whatever idc
I needed to flip your mindset a little bit
But I didn't plan for you to be this freaked out
So I do apologize for that
It’s cool. You must not know me that well IRL
Diplomacy is all about trust.  The beauty about it is that you can't trust anyone.  All anyone can do is spin a web and make assumptions about people.  You were trying to do that to me earlier, it seems, without realizing it
Did you request it?
Nope just as surprised as you are
Wonder if England did
Possibly
Are you moving south here?
Any final thoughts?
Got to finalize some plans myself, just checking in
I can support you into Rum here if you want.  I'm holding my northern line so don't bother taking it out.  However it may benefit you to move against T here
You there?
Yeah
thoughts?
I’m not interested man. Sorry 😦
Hey Russia - how’s it going? Excited for this game!
Hey Germany. Should be a great game. Been a while since I’ve played Diplo. Are you going North to England?
Me too tbh!
I’m keeping my options open at this point
Hbu?
I’m hoping to get along well with you and England and focus on France. I think the three of us need to get in front of things and envision what Scandinavia looks like in two years
I honestly don’t know what the heck France is doing to not even take Spain with their first turn one. That seems like a pretty obvious move. I would like Sweden for another supply center. You can take Norway. I may need to protect my southern flank more from Turkey who could cause problems.
Are you going into Ber in the fall?
No. I’m holding in Prussia to protect my East flank.
I don’t want to fight you and would much rather have peace so I can focus on expanding west. But based on the location of your armies I don’t think I can let you take an additional supply center without concrete assurances.
I’m moving from
Prussia back to Warsaw. I expanded East too fast and I need to deal with Turkey in the South. I understand if you want to bounce me from Sweden this turn but if you don’t I can more easily deal with my problems in the South and direct my attention away from you to the Balkans.
What will you do with the Lvn army?
We still have an hour. I can be open to letting you take Sweden.
Shit. I’m pretty screwed now. Disbanding my Prussia Army so you don’t need to worry about me. Need to beat Turkey back to stay alive.
I’m sorry man. I should have trusted you but I was spooked by the two army’s near me. I hope you understand.
Yea I understand. Don’t blame you. Blame myself for moving east too fast really.
Turkey asked me why your army in Ber halted. What do you want me to say?
Think you have to worry more about England right now. I’m going to be locked down in the south trying to deal with Turkey. England can eventually take Sweden unless you support me moving there. Then you can block England from getting it and it gives me some life in my fight down south with a new supply center. Otherwise I’m not gonna last very long most likely and you’ll be dealing with England by yourself.
Yes. Happy to let you move into Sweden. What should I say to Turkey about you not going into Ber?
Are they still asking about that? Just say I decided not to in the end and thought you were defending it anyway.
May need you supporting me from Finland moving in or I’ll just get bounced from UK. Not sure though.
I’m open to it but don’t want to commit just yet
Pretty down tho
Not going to really be able to do much with that fleet this spring anyway
Yea ok. Fucking Turkey....
I just want to make sure me and France are on the same page before I go all in against England.
That situation is difficult to figure out as both sides vacated the British channel which is usually contentious territory from turn 1 which makes me think they’re secretly working together.
You’re probably right here.
You’re not going to do well if you’re being attacked from the north and the south. How about you give me Sweden and I’ll lay off you for the game?
I’m about to lose anyway.
Yeah I feel. I decide not to bounce you anyway. I’m going to try to take Norway from England if that helps any.
Would you consider supporting me into Norway? If I take it, I can force England to disband one unit, which I  imagine would be it’s far flung stray, St. Petersburg
Yea sure.
Support your unit in Denmark?
Nah the fleet in SKA
Gonna have Denmark defend
Let me know you saw this
Long term, I think the best I can do for you is let you keep sweden so you can move your fleet and try to reclaim stp
Then you can potentially recover a build and stay alive
Many of the other players seem to have written you off for dead, but I am down to do what I can to keep you alive.
I’m dead. Think Austria is going after Warsaw next turn.
Yeah. I may have to ally with england to stop Austria. Apparently, he is the top ranked player in the world.
Can you still support me into Norway from SKA?
Negotiations with england are stalled.
Hey - are you online?
Am now. Had to retreat from Sweden.
Yeah man tough break
Hey England! Looking forward to this game. How are you this afternoon?
Hello there. I’m doing well although it’s the evening here on the east coast. Wondering where you stand with France and Russia. Will you bounce Sweden? Has France spoken to you about Belgium?
East coast for me too 😴
France reached out to me but I haven’t responded
Still determining my plans! I haven’t locked in any moves yet. Where do you stand with France?
We agreed to bounce the channel but they weren’t much more communicative than that
France asked me to bounce bur but I haven’t agreed to it yet. That’s all we’ve communicated
A lot of players are not very responsive
Where are you based on the East Coast? I work in DC but I’m from Philly originally
I’m in Boston but I live in SF. Originally from Boston. My work takes me here for about 1 week a month.
You’re so lucky that your job lets you go home. I try to get back to philly once every 6 weeks or so, but I have to use my weekends for it.
I’m actually going to be in Palo Alto in August! I’ve never been in those parts before
Hey England! So we have a good deal to chat about. Are you planning to go into Hol? Nwy?
Definitely gonna be taking Norway. Haven’t decided if fleet or army yet though. Are you going to bounce Russia?
I’m gonna grab Belgium. Are you taking Ruhr or Burgundy?
Ruhr and Hol probably
But I’m not 100% sure
I might move Mun to Ber to protect from Russia
Hey there. What do you think about pushing further into France with me and Italy?
Hey! I’m open to it. What are your thoughts on Sweden?
Russia is asking me to support him into Sweden. I’d prefer if you just continue to bounce him out. So I can grab St. Pete. Then you can have Sweden.
Sound like a plan?
Hello
Hi, there
Was that a friendly hello before the stab? Did you have something you wanted to discuss?
Yeah I mean I hadn’t really heard from you so wanted to reach out.
I would like to work something out with you. We both have a common rival in France at the moment.
The last message before your hello was me asking you to help me against Russia. I hadn’t really heard from you. Not the other way around. Did you not receive that message? We should talk to the admins if so
Would you be willing to support me into Paris?
Yes and I responded. Did you get my response?
I did not
Hmm. Maybe it was when things were glitchy?
I’ll message the admin. Well what did you say?
I would screen shot but I feel like that’s against the rules of the study
“He’s asking for my support too. I’m not committal. I’m open to it because  he didn’t screw me in Ber last year.”
That’s why I stayed out of it
Ok, let’s turn this partnership around.
Russia is a goner.  Austria is the next biggest threat once we deal with France.
Can I count on your support into Paris?
No I have the unit committed to supporting Italy
Ah, ok. I’d like to avoid losing a dot if possible. Looking unlikely I guess.
Well, that’s not true.
Maybe if I manage to hold Norway.
You should grab Sweden.
Just making sure you got my messages.
Yes sorry
I’m taking to Italy about how we split up France.
Any suggestions?
See I don’t know what I can realistically get out of that scenario.
Well you already have Belgium and Holland. Paris is all yours.  Italy can have marseille and Spain and I can take Brest and Portugal. What do you think of that? Then we all head east to face Austria and turkey.
That is if Austria doesn’t stab Italy first
And you don’t stab me
You heading east goes right through me tho.
No, I plan on going through Russia. I want to land in Scandinavia and move from there.
I need an ally near me. Russia is obviously out. The only other option at this stage is France or you. France has been very uncommunicative so I’d like it to be you.
I feel the same way.
I have one additional term. I need control of the North Sea. If I have the North Sea, I can move my units  in Denmark Holland and Belgium away to focus on supporting other offences. I can’t risk being knifed in the back and cannot keep three units defending against the North Sea to feel safe.
I’ve heard that Austria is one of the top ranked players in the world. Did you know this?
I didn’t know that.
I can’t leave the North Sea open for two reasons. The first is the same concern as yours. The second is I’ll need it to convoy troops.
Could you convoy through the channel? You would have my support. and I don’t mean open, I mean mine.
I guess I could convoy via Norwegian Sea but I still have the same concerns that you do except they’re my home centers!
1. I don’t blame you for a second
You are also in a very strong position with 2 fleets in the north.
2. I’m attracted to this alliance because I do not want Austria to win. It would be so lame if we all lose to the top guy.
It can work but we just need to keep each other in check.
Yeah. If one of us gets too weak it becomes tempting. England- Germany alliance are very difficult.
Austria is going to get two builds. It’s unlikely peace can hold in the east.
With you in the North Sea, I feel like I can’t leave Denmark or Holland undefended. But I understand with me there you will feel the same about Edinburough and London.
Do you know if Italy is going to try and take Smyrna?
I don’t.
You’re correct. While it would be nice to be able to move those units east. Let’s try and make it work with you staying there.
I’m not on board with that. I can just have two units sitting around doing nothing just to be your pal, no offense.
So we let Austria roll?
Because it will be a grind between us while Austria gains momentum
Yeah but sometimes you have to take those kinds of risks.
What about a demilitarised North Sea. We agree to leave it open.
I’m way more amenable to that
That way, I think we both get what we want.
Which is basically trust but verify.
But starting next season? I need to convoy into Norway this season.
Will you be taking Sweden?
Kinda depends on what we finalise here
I mean I can. Russia knows he’s done, that would just be a final nail in the coffin.
Ok, I’ll be convoying into Norway this season. Next season I move into Norwegian Sea or channel depending on frances moves.
Do you think Italy can be pealed away from Austria?
That’s gonna be a question we’ll have to face later. I have no idea now.
All Italy cares about is France right now. No clue what his future plans hold.
Makes sense. He’s a good player. How long do you see these terms holding out? Does Paris still go to me?
This strategy leaves me little room to build outside of heading east, which is my concern.
Yes you still get Paris
I’m not really sure. I hope we can can see this to the end.
Ok
For the record
I talked to Austria
And he was trying to talk me into attacking you
Taking the North Sea right now
Basically just knifing you while I “have the upper hand”
He’s talking to me to about going after you
No shit
What’s he saying?
Lol
So that’s why I feel like we need to make this deal.
But perhaps we can be even more clever.
He’s saying that I need to work with France to make sure you don’t get too strong
How can we be more clever?
Basically we have to agree on a strong alliance first
Before we can start playing 4d chess
Italy is a nice guy, but as far as I see he is going to be an Austria puppet.
You know I’m all in on it
I agree
Hell yeah
I think a simple move is to string Austria along as long as possible, without raising suspicions of an Anglo-German alliance.
This way we can get as much intel we can
I think I can say I took sweden instead of the North Sea because I wanted another build, maybe he’ll think I’m a noob, I don’t know any better, and will only be moderately suspicious
But how do I know you’re actually in and not just playing me?
Hello? I’m already nervous you’re like reporting all this to Austria haha
Sorry
I’m FaceTiming with my gf and she gets kissed when I click over to discord
We are 100% on
HAHAHAH dude I’m about to ft my gf too.
So you understand
Okay. I’m going to trust you. A ~radical~ thing to do in this game.
Of course bro.
Let’s take down Austria. I’m gonna tell Italy that we are iffy and have some trouble in case he’s reporting to Austria
Basically just to be clear, I see this as a long term alliance to stop Austria. From my POV, it’s not about me or you winning ourselves but about having someone other than this top ranked player beat all of us.
Hell yeah.
100%
Also honestly this will be more fun if you’re working together like total hand in glove with someone
Plus think about the diplomatic advantage of us being able to triangulate intel
Good looks with Italy
Hey man what’s going on with your supporting order into bur.
Complete oversight. I had my orders like that before we came to our agreement. Between talking to you and Italy and Austria AND my gf last night I forgot to change them up. My bad.
That’s why there was a useless support of North Sea as well
I should have moved London to the channel
Okay no worries at all. I’ll take your word for it totally, but it kinda put me on alert that’s all.
And yeah like 45 minutes before the turn ended I still had my dudes invading Norway lol so no sweat.
Basically no harm done, but like if you do fuck me, instead of my mission being kill Austria it’s gonna change to you lol
Def don’t wasn’t that tho
*want
Absolutely. I’m still team kill Austria (and maybe Italy)
I’d love to peak Italy away from Austria but there’s only so much we can do
*peal
I’m gonna be super busy tomorrow so down to tan through some moves now. I would love to pick up Warsaw and Paris this turn, so I can have the strength to blitzkrieg into Austria
Gonna need your help with nonaggression in the North Sea. Can you move your fleet to the Norwegian Sea next turn?
There’s definitely going to be a target on my back
Any interest in supporting me into Paris
I’m about to take off for a flight and probably won’t land before adjudication. I’ll support you into laris and move from the North Sea but I need builds.
Clutch thanks!
I can help where needed
Actually I can’t support
I need that to move on Brest
But I will move from North Sea
I’ll support you in next season
Taking off. God speed.
Hmm. Maybe don’t move North Sea. Might spoke Austria and Italy
This is gonna be awesome
Oh shit
Do you think France will retreat to the North Sea if you take the channel???
That could fuck up everything
Additionally, IF and only IF you feel comfortable with it, I’m happy to move my fleet into position to help you with the battle of the channel and to try to rout France from slipping into the Irish Sea or worse the Norwegian Sea. Russia is going to lose that fleet next turn I’m assuming so I literally won’t have anything to do with my two fleets. If prefer to use them to help you in the west and to potentially convoy your units as needed.
I would also talk to Turkey about what is going to happen in Moscow.
Damn I wish we could call people rather than text but hey whatever
It’s going to be hard to pull Italy away from Austria. We have to really strategize how we pull the ultimate stab. We should gently work on loosening Italy from Austria, but be prepared in case that doesn’t happen.
Also no worries at all if not, but if you could support me into Paris that would be dope. No worries if you can’t at all!
Let me know if you’re cool with me temporarily putting my fleet in ska in the North Sea to block off France. France retreating their will screw things up big time. I have it set to move there right now, but I’ll call it off immediately if you tell me to.
Yeah, I’m pretty uncomfortable with you in the North Sea.
Let me think for a sec
We can bounce North Sea.
I’m game. That serves the same end
It means I don’t force channel though
Right that was my thought too.
I guess it just has to be that way.
Can you move ska to bal?
I mean den
Ska was gonna bounce the North Sea
Yeah, I’m dumb
Did you work out Warsaw with Austria?
I mean he’s not protesting me going after it but in all likelihood I won’t get it till spring
We kinda need to make a big play in spring 1905 before Turkey is totally destroyed
Will he support you in?
Turkey is supporting me into Moscow in exchange for support in sev.
Why did you move to ska?
All that does is threaten Norway needlessly
Accidental move
I mean to go bal, but it’s kinda inconsequential to me. I really don’t have anything for those guys to do.
Except threaten me
But yeah I don’t blame you for feeling suspicious
Yeah dude really total oversight. I’m committed to this alliance.
How can you rectify it?
If you’re scared I’m happy to set something you like as good faith but I think I’ve been pretty accurate to my word
Gez man
Whatever you want I literally have nothing to do with these units
I get it tho I felt the same last turn but like I don’t want these kinda things to totally throw us off. I’m  banking on you help stop Austria and definitely have placed my trust in you
12 hours days
I’m at a conference for work and can’t really pay too much attention to this rn
But like in sort
I’ll do what you want
But I don’t like this tone of “how will you rectify” like I don’t want any tension here
Ok, fair enough. I had one of those days too. It’s a suspicious move but as long as we can figure out a way to get you back in Denmark we’re cool.
I’m totally game.
And like I said, no hard feelings here either. I think we’ve both really committed to working together and so we’re hypersensitive to getting stabbed
Here’s my orders as they are set right now.
Bur>Par
Hold in Bel
Kie>Ruh
Ber>Pru
Sil>War
Ska>Den
Hold Sweden
Honestly it might be best to make a habit out of sharing and confirming our movesets to avoid problems like this. That way if there is a stab, there are no two ways about it.
Another thought - maybe, we agree that if we want to break the alliance after Austria is subdued we have a one term armistice so we can regroup and prepare, once again to reduce risk of stab
F BAR - NWG
F Lon - NTH
A Pic - Bre
A Stp - Mos
F Wal H
Building an army in Edi so I can convoy to Norway. Going to push on the channel from North Sea.
If Russia is smart, he’ll disband Warsaw because it’s dead no matter what. That will be annoying for st. Pete but we’ll see.
Austria is nervous of you. He’s asking me to not support you into Warsaw. I’m playing very coy. Happy to support you in but if you think we can use this for some duplicity why it try? I could tell him I’ll help him out to keep him on my side for now. He sees that you will be “pointlessly moving east.” And you are a “poor player who doesn’t deserve Warsaw.” Clearly some threat there.
HAHAHAH now I really want him dead
Like why a dick? Does he think that we want his respect because he’s some highly ranked dude? BS. As long as he loses, I’m happy.
*what
He messaged me that he’s confused why I won’t move on england
He just messaged me asking me to “talk tonight.”
Whatever that means.
I hope we can troll him good
Good to know. Me too!
Austria is trying to convince me that you will attack me lol
He’s committed to joining forces against you. I’ve stayed silent.
Thanks man.
Could you support me into Paris? Once I’m there I can support you on the coast.
Sure
Thanks man! Much appreciated. How did your chat go with Austria?
Hey man how’s it going?
Austria is telling me things you apparently said about me
Trying to provoke me to attack you.
I haven’t said a word to him
Keeping him in the dark
Smooth.
Ok, now he’s trying to convince me that the only place for expansion is through you. Are you not planning on moving on him? I’m surprised you didn’t move into Munich.
I’m moving on him in the spring after I get my two new builds. I don’t want to arouse too much suspicion before the blitzkrieg
So the plan is army in Munich and army in Berlin? Will you support pic into Brest?
Yes, I’ve already set my orders to do so.
And yes army in Mun and Ber
Still wanna share orders?
Yeah for sure. Especially if we’re going to turn on Austria soon, we should be coordinating clearly
Have you been talking to Italy or Turkey?
I’ve been talking to turkey but he realizes he’s donezo
Don’t be tempted by Austria. He’s a smooooth talker.
F ENG S NAO - MAO
A Mos S Arm - Sev
F NAO - MAO
A Pic - Bre
F Wal S Yor - Lon
A Yor - Lon
He sure is. And Turkey can’t win, but he will still be alive and potentially able to recover some builds when we hit Austria.
A Bel - Ruh
A Bur S Par
F Den - HEL
A Par S Pic - Bre
A Sil S War
F Swe - Den
A War H
Who are you supporting in Sev?
Any chance I can count on Warsaw to support Moscow? Also, we should block frances retreat in the North Sea.
I was supporting Armenia to sev
Nice. I think we should protect the north seas because a rouge french fleet will be a big distraction from the Austria front.
Updated my orders. I’m now supporting you in Moscow.
Italy is telling me that you and Austria will team against me in Warsaw. I think this is Austria trying to bait me into acting against you or him.
I’m going to bounce France out of the North Sea baring protest from you. I will remove my fleet from the North Sea once it is not needed to protect from France.
That’s cool with me. We have to stay strong. I won’t be flipping
A Bel - Ruh
A Bur S Par
F Den - NTH
A Par S Pic - Bre
A Sil S War
F Swe - Den
A War S Mos
My updated orders
I need some strategy help
I needed to convince Austria not to take Moscow. In told him I wouldn’t support turkey into sev if he didn’t take Moscow and then we could talk about moving against you. The truth is I still plan on supporting turkey however I don’t have much of a plan after that. We need more armies up north.
I just realized that for that to work, Warsaw needs to hit Ukraine
Is that possible?
Geez, so many moving parts here.
If I don’t hear from you 5 minutes before adjudication I’ll just hold Moscow and deal with turkey and sev next year.
Hey just got out of a meeting
Glad to hear from you
My fear is that by hitting Ukraine, I provoke Austria and become the aggressor. That makes it unlikely we can convince Italy to stay neutral. At this point, I am almost hoping Austria attacks me in some way so I can claim retaliation and blitzkrieg
Just read my message from Austria, he is thinking about taking Moscow.
He said “because I am not hearing from england...” this was 9:05 am est so I assumed you have hammered it out since then.
*assume
Unless he stabs, yes
Sweet. IF he does stab, then we have an excuse to invade.
I’m not going to try and convince you to move against Austria if you don’t want to. I do think however that if we can knock him out of sev we are on a much better strategic position. I’ll plan on holding Moscow unless you say otherwise.
What can I do to knock him out of Sev on this turn?
I totally agree. There is nothing I rather do than deny him another build.
But I don’t see how I can possibly stop him this turn. I had the same conversation with Turkey.
You hit Ukraine. I support Armenia into sev. Black supports Armenia
Damn this is a tough call.
Well you let me know what you want to do and I’ll plan around it. It’s all up to you.
Maybe it’s time to just go ahead and make the first strike. I alert him to my intentions, but deny him a build, which is far more important.
Still, the trade off is now he will be able to move against me in spring 1905 and that might be a big advantage.
But your builds will protect against that, no? Don’t forget that by doing this turkey is still a contender
So with this move, his army in sev is forced to disband
Right
So do I hold or support?
If I hit Austria, what does our spring 1905 strategy look like?
I’m playing around with the sandbox.
Our odds are better if Italy stays out of it. If we go all out on Austria, we need you and turkey to be strong. It’s going to be intense in no mans land and everything will come down to who’s line breaks first.
We’ll have Austria squished.
Either I build armies and funnel through Scandinavia to help you or build fleets and take on Italy.
I’m nervous but I think it’s time to take the plunge. This is minus one for Austria and plus one for our ally.
Ok, cool. Let’s do it
F ENG S NAO - MAO
A Mos S Arm - Sev
F NAO - MAO
A Pic - Bre
F Wal S Yor - Lon
A Yor - Lon
A Bel - Ruh
A Bur H
F Den - NTH
A Par S Pic - Bre
A Sil S War
F Swe - Den
A War - Ukr
I’ve got a bad feeling about this stab
If you think we’ll have a better opportunity later we can do that. I don’t know what’s gonna happen next but it feels like this is a good spot.
I think you are right rationally. My concern is twofold. 1. We will most likely force a hostile Italy. I’m sure that would have happened any way but we destroy any possibility. 
2. We give Austria a heads up, he will defending the neutral ground
Yeah actually
We can’t do it this turn, I’m sorry. Once I get the jump on him in the spring I can force him to disband. Plus give you more time to bring units over
I’m going to play it conservatively here and not stab
Sorry for the last minute change up
Ok then. Hold Moscow it is.
I’m too risk adverse
Wow, good call my man. Turkey is dumb. Shame I couldn’t take Brest.
We avoided prematurely springing ww3 by the skin of our teeth
We should get thinking about what the next move is. We’re lucky that we have the build phase now so we have 36 hours to brainstorm the best move and gather more intel.  

I would love to work out a scenario where Italy remains neutral but assuming that won’t happen, I think you’ll have to be prepared to keep him busy in the west cleaning up the ruins of France.
Perhaps I can convoy your army in London to Norway and you can begin to sweep him in?
I was thinking the same thing re:convoying to Norway. I need to find a couple builds. Brest is a lock. And I’ll have to make sure Italy is still on board with giving me Portugal. I’d like to see more of my fleets pushing into the med and more of your armies pushing east. I don’t have time to think about precise moves but just general strategy
Yes I agree. I don’t want to do it before we’re ready, but I don’t want to wait until Austria has killed turkey.
Agreed
Can you see anywhere for me to expand that isn’t Austria? I assume he’s going to try to pressure me into attacking you.
That’s my impetus for attacking ASAP. The longer I wait the stronger Austria grows while I stagnate.
I’m in the same boat my man. Austria is the only way for you to expand other than through me. I have to bust through France and Italy. This is a tough alliance but I’m committed to making it work.
Oh yeah attacking each other is NOT an option. But I think moving on Austria ASAP is.
Sorry hope that was clear.
Agreed
F ENG - MAO
A Lon - Nwy
A Mos H
F NAO S ENG - MAO
A Pic - Bre
F Wal - ENG
Here’s what I’m thinking
From Austria: “did you ask Germany to move into the North Sea? If not I’m all in with you. He’s the largest on the map now with free access to Norway and Edinburgh. Let’s go after him.”
Any ideas on how to spin?
Hmm let me think about it. This could be gold tho.
If we can somehow spin a narrative that Austria is going after me and breaking out alliance, we may win over Italy
What are you thinking?
I think we can force sev now with turkey so long as he’s not a donkey
Yeah let’s discuss with him and put together a fool-proof plan.
I’m kinda busy this evening so I hope you guys can put together a good strategy
I'm talking to him now
plan on hitting Ukraine
turkey is starting to back down.
what do you think if I take warsaw from you with austira's help to gain some trust from him?
just thinking out loud here
Um I think that’s a horrible idea
I have a material advantage over Austria now, why blow it?
ok, fair
turkey is back on board
hit ukraine and i'll support armenia in
Yo can we do this in the fall? I want to take Gal so I can take Vienna in the fall.
If I don’t take Gal I risk losing Warsaw
Austria is going to take Warsaw from me if we don’t plan carefully here. I think you should support Warsaw, as I move my unit into Gal. Then the following turn, I will attack the Ukraine and open the path for Turkey to recover.
Can you get on board with that? Full disclosure I feel kinda shakey since you suggested supporting Austria into Warsaw.
Here are my orders: 
    
A Ber - Sil
A Bur H
F Den - HEL
A Mun - Boh
F NTH H
A Par S Pic - Bre
A Ruh - Mun
A Sil - Gal
A War S Sil - Gal
Let me know when you get this - once again my conservative instincts want to make sure I sure up my position before helping turkey.
Don’t let Austria smooth talk you. He’s really good. He wants me to hit you lol, as always.
SOS just checking in Austria said you asked him to move on me?
Hey dude you gotta answer me ASAP
Dude Austria just used my IRL name
Wtf
Sorry
I’m in it to win it with you
I won’t be swayed
I want Austria to lose
How does he know your real name?
F ENG - MAO
A Lon - Nwy
A Mos S War
F NAO S ENG - MAO
A Pic - Bre
F Wal - ENG
Don’t waiver dude
I’m with you
Thanks for supporting Warsaw
Much appreciated
A Ber - Sil
A Bur H
F Den - HEL
A Mun - Boh
F NTH H
A Par S Pic - Bre
A Ruh - Mun
A Sil - Gal
A War S Sil - Gal
Oh shit dude my bad on Norway. I didn’t look closely enough at your orders. Happy to convoy your armies but definitely specifically ask me to do it and make sure I confirm or I might miss it.
I’m glad Austria decided to hit me as well. I think Italy will stay neutral, perhaps even lean towards our side.
"Glad that I at least got him to mess up your convoy lol"
that was from austira
I mean he did succeed there
At least he’s openly at war with us now
Sorry we have to be very explicit with our coordination
Man Austria sucks we gotta wreck him.
he's implying that you purposefully didn't convoy
Why in God’s name would I do that?
What went wrong here is that we sent each other our move set but didn’t look closely enough.
Also if you need me to convoy, I’m happy to do it but you should specifically ask for it.
Austria is right tho dude - I was so freaked out last night that he used me real name I was off my game
Like that still creeps me out tbh
I just set me orders to convoy you this turn, assuming things are still good here.
ok
how does he know your name?
Dude I have no idea
He just like used it randomly in the convo and I have no idea who he is
are you part of a diplomacy teams group?  because if you've played a lot of gunboat games through that app, real name is attached to dip name.
Perhaps that’s it, but still how would he know that I’m Germany in this game?
Either way it was a wack gambit that really bugged me out
Like he thought using my IRL name would get me to trust him
But are you and I good?
yes.  as long as after the convoy you move out of n sea
Like I sent you my orders last night exactly as they adjudicated so it’s not like I was hiding something
Okay word
italy is asking how he can take portgual and i reminded him that portugal was supposed to be mine.  this might be where things turn between me and him
But you cannot move into the North Sea either tho!
no, neither of us are supposed to be there
Yes exactly. good glad we’re on the same page
It made sense to block France and I appreciate you trusting me to park there temporarily
austria is Ajax on discord.  I just put that together by his profile pic.  I don't know who Ajax is IRL
Yeah he’s got a cool pro pic
No but dude he got really wack about it
Like let me quote you some stuff
“We didn’t have trust before. You thought we had trust. That is the foundational mirage of diplomacy.”
wtf
I just found that stuff off-putting
Like weird way to double down on already making me feel weird
Austria’s only path to survival here is to convince you or Italy to attack me.
are we waiting on retreats still??
Ya I think so
This turn exceeded my expectations
Turkey retook sev and I snagged vie
Plus you took MAO
Only bummer is that Turkey lost Con
I also made it into MAO
Lol, yo said that
Big win all around
so you're moving to denmark and Helgoland, right?
I’ll def leave the North Sea but haven’t decided where to go yet
(Obviously not your turf don’t worry!)
What’s our strategy in the south east?
I’m considering moving Bur> Mun to helpeith the austria offensive. I would move my fleets to Hol and Bel to deter from a potential Italian incursion.
Sorry for going MIA
Crazy day
No sweat
I need to take Portugal somehow
Can you support me into Gascony?
Sorry I ptfoed
I perceived Italy’s move in Tyr as an act of aggression against me.
I need you to cut support in Marseilles for me
Can you do that?
F ENG S IRI - MAO
A Gas S MAO - Spa/sc
F IRI - MAO
F MAO - Spa/sc
A Mos S Sev
A Pic - Bre
A Stp - Lvn
Do you want me to hit Mar?
We need to take Ukraine
Yes. Please hit Marseilles
Yeah I can do that
Sev can’t fall
Taking Ukraine allows me to open up another line of attack on Austria and support and protect Turkey
Ok, we’ll we should do it in the spring so that if he ends up taking sev we have an opportunity to take it back.
Agreed
would you be down to move Moscow there? If not, I can use Warsaw
Where?
To Ukraine
I think that’s ok
You moving there or me?
I’ll move there in the spring
Sweet
What should I do in your opinion this turn?
You seem stalemated
The lines are going to get entrenched soon
We’ll have to use some diplomacy skills to get Italy on our side
Might be a little late.
who needs diplomacy skills when you have NMRs?
Lol
Should have gone on the offensive
what is they say about hindsight?
20/20?
True
Didn’t lose any ground tho
Can you please support Gascony into Marseilles?
I’m in the fence about war with Italy. He withdrew from Tyr and wants peace. I’m afraid of him teaming up with Austria. I would prefer to wait a year before hitting him, so I can cripple Austria.
*on
Like I’ve always said, my primary goal is beating Austria hahaha
Italy is done for
Let’s kick him while he’s down
You have nothing to fear in him anyways.
It’s not looking good, but if he teams with Austria he can really slow me down.
He could slow me down with Austria. At least let me get a foothold in Tyr and Ukraine and pick up one more Austrian SC before turning on Italy.
I really just want one enemy to focus on.
I could be comfortable turning Bur over to you.
Move my unit back to Munich to focus on Austria, then you could support yourself in during the fall.
Would that work for you?
Can you support my unit in war into Ukraine?
Yes, both plans sound good. Please let me into burgundy and I’ll support you into Ukraine
Good shit man. I’m moving Burg to Mun and War to Ukraine
Any chance you’d give up Paris? I don’t see where my sc is coming from and I need a build for our parity.
100000% no
Why not?
You got a build last turn and I didn’t, but I didn’t demand Norway. My goal is to beat Austria. I need every unit I can to do so.
You’re at 10
Look man I’m not going to shrink myself for you to feel safer. I love our alliance and think it has definitely worked for our mutual benefit. But we never agreed that there was an expectation of parity and even that suggestion makes me weary of a stab from you.
Does that make sense? Like I really want to focus on beating Austria. Once he’s gone, then we can talk about Paris.
ok
no stab. don't worry.
Dude I’m gonna help you more
I don’t see how neutrality with Italy is sustainable
I’m going to talk to him, but at this point I don’t see how I’m not supporting you into Mar.
I don’t like what happened in Spain. Very happy about turkey’s success.
The big turning point will be once you get a foothold in the med
I’m very displeased with what’s happening in Iberia
Me too dude.
I’m happy to help however I can
Would you be down to help me into Ven in a few turns. Now that you’re in mar and I’m in Tyr we’ve cracked the nut of Italy
What’s the plan? I’ve been swamped with life.
I need support in Marseilles
I’m gonna try and take Spain
Okay
Dope
I was hoping to move to Mun so I could defend Tyr
But I can move par to burg and then support From there
I’m frustrated with Turkey. I need him to help hit Austria in Rom. We can break Austria literally this season.
If he doesn’t comply, I’m okay with threatening to take sev
Turkey is on board. Obviously DONT HIT SEV haha
F Bel
A Boh S Tyr
A Bur - Mun
A Gal - Bud
F Hol
A Par H
A Tyr - Tri
A Ukr S Sev - Rum
A Vie S Gal - Bud
A War - Gal
My moves
Hey man -  wanted to check in and touch base with you
What’s happening
Your annihilation if aistria is almost complete
It is!!
Thank you for being such a solid ally
I’m down to continue working together
ok, well i need SCs
Spain, Portugal?
Italy’s being a real stick in the mud on that
Yikes so is this the end of the alliance?
All good things come to an end, I understand
With Italy? I don’t think we were ever really allied
Oh no with me and you I was worried
Yeah I can help you as long as we’re totally cool
Dude, chill
Lol sorry
Every other message it’s stab worry
We’re in it together
Fuck yeah
F
f
Hey Turkey - how is it going? Excited for this game!
Of course, yeah! Will see how things unfold
How are things going? Do you think Austria or Russia or going to be a problem?
For you or for me?
Do you know what Russia is up to?
Have you heard from him??
I haven’t
No I haven't either
Only person I haven’t talked to so I don’t have anything for you. I shared a lot of small talk with Austria - seems like a nice guy but we won’t have much shop to talk for the first couple turns.
Yeah, I think you'll be fine with Austria initially
Have you talked to France much?
I inquired about Italy a little bit but not so much about other plans
How’s it going Turkey?
It does seem like Russia has a deal with Austria, I was expecting A war - gal at least for some control on rumania
What do you think about Austria and Italy though?
They seem like nice guys. Very chatty
They seem like nice guys. Very chatty
Right I agree. Russia seems to be going after me.
Why did the army in Pru halt?
Also, it's clear that Austria is going to build 2 units in Tri and Vie. I think you should be cautious now that Rusia may withdraw some troops to Sev
He thought I was going to defend and decided not to anyway
Possibly. I’m more focused on France and England at the moment
Okay, good luck with that. I think Russia will move back for now so that'll hopefully be helpful int the short term
Looks like Russia is finished... Any plans for the future? I'm not sure how long I can hold out here
I’m still deciding what to do in Scandinavia
Well, if Austria grabs warsaw, Russia will probably disband that fleet
So just take Sweden?
Yeah, or you F Den S F Ska - Swe
Yeah. I wouldn’t mind keeping Russia alive on life support
Or the same for norway. Perhaps that england scares you more
Exactly.
Just note that Stp can suport F NTH - Nwy
Thanks for the reminder
OMG
😃
I could bait england to doing that then snipe the North Sea lol
So unless russia cuts support
But perhaps he is vengeful and willing to help? I'm not sure
Well, he could even just convoy to norway and support that
if you disrupt the convoy then clearly you are not attacking norway.
Yeah.
If he is distracted with F NTH though it is likely france can move into the channel
Is that so bad?
Man Austria is gonna win this isn’t he?
It's not bad for you, since France seems to want use that to invade england perhaps
Exactly.
but he made a big mistake with moves in spring
Austria?
Or France?
France I think. The A spa -Mar got stopped
And that cascaded to portugal.
If he had moved A spa-gas and A por-spa, he could easily A Gas S A spa - Mar now
Yup :/
Well, except for your dude there
Italy wants my support into France
Anyhow, we should try to sort something with Italy if we can in case austria gets too strong
Those two are tight.
Not entirely. He did not move F Nap - Ion
which would've been very bad for me since he could then convoy to Syr
I'm trying to win him over and I think he realizes too that if austria gets the whole east that doesn't bode well
He claimed to be the #1 diplomacy player online to me too
Idk if that's true but I wouldn't underestimate him
Austria?
Yep
I’m not surprised. Admin told me that someone in here is the top player.
What if we all just ganged up. Even if I lose knowing I helped beat the best player in the world would be dope lol
I mean, I'll believe it, he got all of {Germany, Russia, Italy} on his hand for the first few years :p
Yeah, I basically had the same idea 😃 Well, except for the losing part
Mwhhaha
Dang
Like, once you sort things out with France/England, you'll be frree to move east. I can probably survive a few turns but anyway you should not expect the peac in the east to last especially since Austria will get 1 or 2 builds in winter
I agree.
Do you have any ideas on how to free up some resources?
My resources?
A deal with england where I get the North Sea.
Ok, but he'd want a way to get his troops across into france at least. So he needs the channel
I don't he will be satisfied to twiddle his thumbs in Pic.
think*
Perhaps a situation where both of you don't occupy NTH is ok?
Then there is a buffer zone both ways.
Actually, it's probably fast to ally with france but it's up to you
Yeah that was my original plan but he’s unresponsive
My other option is to just gun for england. It risks an Austria win, but could allow me rapid growth, especially if I take Norway and then the North Sea next turn.
Yeah, though I'm inclined to think he will move his fleet to norway since it's fall. But in effect he will be giving up the channel, allowing france to move his troops
Either way, England is weakened
Exactly. I still get one build. Sucks that I can’t focus on Austria, but his terms were not sufficient.
Good luck then. I'll try to not die
Okay you’re idea actually revived talks
(An open North Sea armistice)
Hey you still online?
I'm back
I'd like to make some plans with regards to austria if you are able to help out
Totally in
Cool
If you can make a move toward warsaw to begin with that would be beneficial to both of us I think
As soon as austria has to take 1 or two armies off to protect the west, I think I can push in a little bit
Yes. I’m attacking Warsaw this turn and will take it by next turn at the latest. Austria is going to support Italy into Smyrna or at least that’s what he told me
I want to take Paris and Warsaw next turn. Once I have those two extra builds, russia is largely taken by England and France is put to bed. My plan is to move on Austria. I don’t want Italy to turn against us, but if he does I was england to be strong enough to help hold him off.
I would have a conversation with england about what will happen with Moscow. He is a friend and I trust him.
Good luck on everything man. The longer you can hold out the more time england and I have to build.
I'm not sure if this is a good plan: Maybe you can cut A Gal S Rum such that I can A Sev - Rum with support from Bla
This turn?
Yeah. I'm not sure if you have anything else you want to do with A Sil ?
Or maybe keep up appearances
Gonna give Warsaw a shot
exactly. My plan is to let me and england get as strong as possible while Austria thinks we’re his pals
If either me or england attack moscow, the attack on warsaw will fail
If I don't get + 1 command center this turn I will need to disband 1 unit and austria gets plus 1. I'm quite scared of caving in with just 4 units
I’m scared too tbh. I feel like you’re Churchill here and if you lose that unit it could be the beginning of the end
I've made a few bets and it's allowed me to survive so far. But some time the coin will land on the other side
I’m hoping you can keep him busy until spring 1905
That may be wishful thinking
But I don’t feel prepared for a full assault yet
Still if your just hanging on, once we start hitting him from the north and east, you might be able to reclaim builds quickly
I think the best path forward is to wait and see what happens this turn, and if things get too hairy we gotta pull the trigger
Like, if this turn I bet wrong on what's gonna attack what. I'll probably lose another center.
2 instead of 1 or just one?
We may be able to work out some intel
I'm not sure Austria would feel compelled to give you accurate intel on the moves in the southeast
Right. But we may be able to get something. Even if he lies we can potentially make deductions from his lies. Do you guys talk at all?
Barely. For the opposite reason (me giving away stuff)
Also, England has never responded to me
I've also been amazed at how deaf italy has been to my chat about him having nothing to gain from austria winning basically all of turkey
Yes, why is Italy so strongly joined at the hip with Austria? It seems unlikely that we will be able to pry him away unfortunately
On multiple occasions has he been vaguely agreeable with my arguments to then try to stab me anyhow
Also, like if your intel on the Smy attack is correct that changes a lot of things for me (in options)
Like, from the outset that seems a relatively risky choice.
Well, at least there's a way to force a stalemate from this position but I still lose 1 dude (and austria gains one)
Italy supposedly is upset with austria. We'll see how it goes
Really? Why? Do you think it’s a ploy? If we can enlist Italy then there is no reason not to move on Austria immediately
He's claimed to want to move against austria in various ways before to then try to stab me anyway. It had been only plays for me to lower my guard. I wouldn't trust him unless he makes the first move.
Agreed.
So this time I tried going into various strategies in why moving against Austria isn't as hard as he thinks it is. But he's acting not convinced. Anyway, I think there may be a path where we convince him to move together against Austria but it's not clear how to trust Italy after all that he's done before and how closely allied he's been to Austria
I agree. I would wait for some secondary evidence from england or me before trusting him to turn on Austria
It is unfortunate but I do not have winning moves remaining
This is unfortunate if that’s true
I mean, it’s depends on when we can turn on Austria
Yes, that's true. However, if they play it right, as things stand, then there is no way for me to push forward without me losing something. Basically, without that 5th army the status quo is again slightly in their favor. Probably I will lose a unit every year ish, if not faster by the time I only have a few left
Perhaps together with england I can hold the status quo but we'll see how that goes.
Could you attack Ukr with War? I suspect it will support Sev so it can hold against my supported attack
No, I already agreed to support Moscow with that unit , and he is supporting you into sev. I don’t want to turn on Austria until the spring.
Hm, that's another course of action he has huh. But he's not greedy so I'm not sure he'd do that.
England told me he was gonna support you into Sev
I believe him but it's not enough if austria plays defensively and supports sev from Ukr and Rom
Then if I do go on the offensive it's very likely I lose something in my mainland.
So gambling on austria being greedy is the wrong move imo
Unless I can guarantee that I capture Sev.
Hmm. It’s your call. I would love to prevent Austria from getting another build
Right. Is that possible?
Only if you cut his support support, unfortunately
And do what?
But, if you attack ukr with warsaw you'd also cut austria's support on a possible att on mosocow
So basically it's two birds with one stone.
I can get into Sev and you prevent a possible attack on moscow
I made a commitment to england already, so you have to convince him.
I'll try and message him
Look, it's very likely that A gal - war to cut your support if he makes an aggressive move
Then the only thing saving moscow is if I attack Sev
See https://www.backstabbr.com/sandbox/6340894809128960/1904/fall
If I don't attack sev here, moscow would fall
Hmmm
I don’t see what I can do to shift the equation
Actually, you're right
I may hit Ukraine to allow you to retake Sev.
Sure, let's give it a try
So are you going to move on ukr in spring?
No me and england we thinking about jumping the gun in a last ditch effort to save sev
But this turn I think (if I have the balls to do it) I’m going to just dive into Austria
And lets the chips fall where they may
Great! I'm still coming up with their likely game plan. I'd like to not lose 2 centers in turkey by winter if I can prevent it
What is your plan surrounding Ukr and Gal?
No idea I literally haven’t thought this thru
I’m hoping you and england can come up with a good strategy here
I will get support from England to attack Sev. If you do A War- Ukr that will succeed and one of Austria's armies there will be disbanded
That’s great news
So you're ready to help?
Yes- let me set my orders
I will help you retake sev. But I cannot hit Ukraine until the fall. I have to sure up my hold in Warsaw and my path into Vienna. I hope that is acceptable.
Yo
Ack
Did you request england to not support my attack?
I asked him to support Warsaw with the understanding that we will both support you into sev this turn.
I couldn’t help you in the spring because I risked losing Warsaw which would set the whole war on Austria behind
I would've been happy to attack Rum or similar in this turn, which would make it much harder for austria to hold warsaw or Vienna at the same time, even if you had lost warsaw in spring. There's no way Austria could've held warsaw with you getting some support from England (attack of 3 strenght)
That could be right, idk. But let’s focus on helping you take Sev this turn.
Hey Turkey - one of my big goals is to make sure you get another build in 1906. I think most likely this will be doable in Rum.
I have to ask you something tho
Sure, what is it?
Just keep me posted if you hear any wind that people are going to gang up on me. Now that I have 10 units and they all have 7 I’m a bit worried
I’m thinking king we may be able to have you take Rum this year
Yeah I'm also considering Bul but I need to defend Ank as well
When did you want to move on Rum?
Maybe fall
What are the plans in fall?
Can you support my unit in War into Ukraine. I will use him to support you into Rom
Congrats on the big retake!
I feel like I turned on Austria just in time to save you haha
Hi, sorry for the tardyness. I've just had a really busy weekend 🙂
Yeah, thanks. Slowly getting back into the game
No worries. Would you feel comfortable supporting me into Rom? Then in the spring I’ll move to Budapest and you can take rom
I think it makes slightly more sense for me to take it this turn, because you won’t have the physical spaces to build two new units
While I'm not entirely opposed to this proposition I don't have time to fully consider it today nor tomorrow. I will just stay as I am for now
Can you support me into rom?
Or are you working with Austria?
I'm not working with Austria, I'm just not doing anything.
Down to support you into rom
I’m going to hit rom unless you want it.
What’s good man - hoping to chat before adjudication
Hey, you still around?
Yes
I'm back from travels!
Nice man welcome back!
Okay, so rum sound good! I can follow up with my troops from mainland turkey as well before winter. What is your side of this?
What would you like me to do for you?
So I’m happy to support you into Rum! But I would like you to support me into in Bud next turn if that’s cool?
Ok, fair enough. I'm a bit worried about englend going for Sev, though. Do you think he'll stay at moscow?
Ukraine is supporting Sev into Rum
Yes, I’ll make sure of it.
You are totally safe from england. We are in a position where if he fucks me he will get fucked twice as hard
Ok great. I'm supporting with the fleet as well.
Perfect. I can’t support with Gal because I need to protect Vienna
But I’m supporting you from Ukraine
Sure, yeah. I'm considering what he will gamble on. If you push into bud with +1 support then we either get bud or rum probably
I’m going to push into bud in the fall with your support from Rum and my support from Vienna
But it will be easier once you’re in Rum
That will break the egg of Austria
Ok! It hinges on serbia's support though
How so?
If both bud and serbia support rum then the attack will fail.
F Bel
A Boh S Tyr
A Bur - Mun
A Gal - Bud
F Hol
A Par H
A Tyr - Tri
A Ukr S Sev - Rum
A Vie S Gal - Bud
A War - Gal
Here’s my moves right now
Happy to update them
Ah ok, that looks good.
As long as there's an attack on Bud as well.
Sweet
I really am kinda incentivised to hit him hard
No, I believe you. We're all set up for this.
Congrats on the pickup! I’m so siked that we were able to turn the tables on Austria.
Would you be down to talk longer term strategy soon?
Yeah, whew that was close for me for a short while. Thanks
Lol Austria just reached out to me saying he would support me into Rum lmfao
He got really mad at me
I’m sure dude
We just need to put him to bed at this point
It's just a game. Like, i don't get it
He’s too intense it’s wack
He like found my IRL name
Which really freaked me out
There's some names on the info tab of the game I guess
actually, if you go to <#601857887098372112> and click on your user, you'll see
But the fact that they went to the effort... I don't know
Sore loser I guess
Just weird to me that’s all
We have a break over the weekend but you still want me to support you into Bud?
Galicia correct?
Yes please!!!
I thanks man.
no problem.
Are you going to take bulg? I’m playing with the sandbox and unfortunately, we can’t take bud until one other territory falls.
If he puts all support on bud I will get bul.
Yeah I think we bluff that we’re going for bud. I won’t get it this turn, but will you help me get it next turn?
Well that literally couldn’t have gone better.
I’m thinking I take Serb and you can have Greece if that’s cool with you?
Can you help me with italy then?
Potentially! As long as we can agree to some broader armistice. I don’t want to focus on fighting you. We just toppled Austria together and plus Turkey is mega hard to take with out a Mediterranean fleet... but we could cause problems for each other if we don’t work something out.
Hey turkey what’s good
Hey I'm around
What up man
I'll try and get greece but it's not guaranteed
Okay no worries
Can  you support me into Serb
Tri > Serb
I can't, sorry
It’s okay I appreciate your honesty
What are you thinking more long term
I'm hoping to set up a convoy to naples, I think
What’s your plan for the army in Rum
Fortify my lines
Fair. I’m not interested in going after you, I just want Serbia
Do you want Moscow
Happy to support you in
I can't
Y
We should bounce in Bur this turn
Hi France! Sorry for the delay - still getting the hang of this app. Why do you think we should bounce in Bur?
To start, I'd like us to have a good relationship, so I'm starting by telling you what I'm going to do, which is move an Army to Burgundy, ideally to bounce. This allows me to protect in case you were planning on doing something to begin with. Second, bouncing helps you out because Germany's first move with the Munich army is either to move to Burgundy or the Ruhr. If you dont move to Bur, then I'm there and you have to move the Ruhr army back to protect Mun anyway. I think we both have other issues than creating a relatively pointless stalemate here when there are better targets if we work together
Interesting. I will have to think it over. What does it look like three years down the road if we’re working together?
England destroyed and divided, you in the north sweeping up Russia with support, ive swept down into Italy
Okay - this works for me. I was going into Rohr will adjust my order and bounce. If we work together against England offers a lot of advantages for both of us, especially in the early game.
I’ve set my order to Mun -> Burg
I’d say Russia is a bit of an issue for you, but the player can’t be very good because moving the fleet to Finland was literally useless and Turkey is about to wreck his southern half
I’m not going to move against you and England is going to be an issue for both of us, since they’ll have 5 builds in 1902.
Agreed. Russia also is not very communicative.
What’s your strategy regarding England
Try to survive for now I guess, was hoping Russia wouldn't fall flat on their face in Scandinavia. I'll consolidate and try and support you against an English attack in Belgium after winter
Russia tells me that we will hold in Pru - not sure to believe him but I think it’s a little early to start screwing people.
Do you mind if I move into Ruh to support a potential future attack on bel
Yeah that should be fine
I’m going to move Mun to Ber instead. I don’t trust Russia right now.
What’s your strategy with going after England? Will you take the channel shortly?
Hey France - I want to check in on plans to go after England.
Circling back ^
Because I suspect that we’d just bounce, I have a better plan to attack the Irish Sea
I’m not going to take the channel
What should I do with regards to england?
Hello
Hey France
I’m thinking about attacking England. I’ve been supporting other players because you have not been responsive, but I’m still open to working with you.
Sorry, work's been a nightmare
I'm still on attacking him
It’s okay.
Hey France how’s it going?
Hey just wanted to say hello
Hey Russia! What's up? Looking forward to playing with you, excited to be playing Austria.  What are your thoughts on the game/your moves?
You there? Would love to talk strategy at some point
Hey Austria,
I sent a message to Turkey because I don’t want to go South or to the Balkans and let you fight with them over that but I might have to do that if I don’t hear from them. I would prefer to head North though.
What did your message to Turkey say? I would love to work with you but we haven't talked nearly enough
They got back to me finally sting they were going to the BlackSea so so am I to bounce them. I’d go to Balkan’s with Italy and go after Turkey. You two together can take them and I’ll stay out of the area early at least.
So what's the plan with England then? Are you forcing him out of Norway?
And what is Warsaw doing? I'd like for it to stay away from me if possible~
Yea, don’t worry about it. I’m not going South.
Could you let me know? I'm not sharing your moves but I need some certainty so I don't end up pushing back on you and wasting my spring moves
I wS going to move to Silesia or Ukraine but might just hold this turn and see what other people do.
Prussia not Ukraine#
Awesome, that's good to hear
Are you going to Romania next turn?
THinking about it.  What do you recommend?
Have your army in Serbia support your army in Budapest to move into Romania. That way even if turkey tries to move into Romania you’d still win and kick them back to Bulgaria.
Good plan.  What are you doing here?
Gonna try t9 take Sweden of at least knock Germany out and returning one army back to Warsaw to regroup in case I have to defend against Turkey for a turn or two while still pressuring Germany. Russia is too damn spread out haha.
Fucking Turkey.  I'll help you take him on.  Keep that ship in the Black Sea, we'll need that one
He’s telling me to decommission it haha
Of course he is.  That's bs.  That fleet is your best chance for staying in the game.  I'll help you out but you need to take him on with me
You still there? I would love to talk about the future
Yea I’m here. I’m with you on that. Not cutting my fleet and I’ll work with you. What’s the next Step? He was talking about leaving Sev to Romania which was prolly BS.
he may try, but I wouldn't trust that.
Even if he tries to move up to Moscow I can bounce him back to Sev anyway.
He can't get Rumania anyway
I don't think he will
He wants to consolidate his units
What’s the plan then if I keep the fleet in the Black Sea?
I'm getting information now
I'll let you know tomorrow?
Ok, sounds good.
With Turkey building another fleet in Black Sea I have to do something with my fleet there or it could be destroyed.
So we're going to move your fleet to Rumania here
Supported by me
Ok sounds good.
Can we just check plans here? I'm supporting you into Rum, correct?
Yea I have my fleet from Black Sea moving there next turn,
Awesome
Fuck, I did not expect T to go for Rum here
Sorry you didn't get in
It’s fine. Looks like you’ll be fighting the war in the south alone for a bit.
What's your focus this fall?
There’s not much I can do really other than hold as I only have 2 units.
Germany is a dick.  I told him not to do that
Yea, he is. I fucked up this game. Was my first time as Russia and I pushed to pressure Germany way too early. Oh well.
I could tell you were a new Russia, but that's not bad.  We'll get em later this game :)
Come over to the Nexus! It's a large Diplomacy server with a great community and good gameplay.  You'll get a lot better there in prep for your next game
https://discord.gg/P5vyvz8
Seems everyone is fight8bg each other in the West and picking apart France. Should give you a lot of room to operate in the east before you start taking them on.
Trying hard
Are you going after Warsaw next turn?
Germany says he is.  I would like to bounce him if possible and I told him I would too.  I need you to keep that center
Ok thanks. I was going to move Moscow there to bounce anyone but now I’ll just have Moscow Hold next turn.
Doesn’t look like Germany can move to Warsaw next  turn anyway.
We're not allowed to share screenshots, but he said he's moving on Warsaw next turn
Dammit dude, had you trusted me I would have put you into Stp this year
Yea I know. I’ve been screwed over a lot this game though haha. My bad.
It works out anyway because Russia moved on you regardless, but you need him to move out
Make it CLEAR to Russia that you're dying to England if he doesn't turn around and take England on
Germany needs to turn around
Yea. I’m moving back to Moscow so it should be ok as long as I don’t get bounced.
I’m pretty impressed by how well England is doing tbh. It’s not always easy for them to do well.
They're good at manipulating Germany.  Good at nothing else.
Haha, good for them. Germany was pissing me off earlier.
Back to Mos here?
Yea, back to Mos.
Kk
Hey England!  Looking forward to playing with you! How's your afternoon going so far?
So far so good. Have you worked anything out with turkey and Russia yet? What you decide to do with Russia will heavily influence what I do.
I haven't actually talked with Russia yet.  The board has been too quiet for my liking. Turkey texted me once but hasn't responded.
I'm fineoving against Russia if I can be assured that Italy won't pose a threat.  The two of us are in a great position to be allies, if you influence Italy on my behalf and I influence Russia on yours...
I’m happy to help. I’ll talk to Italy and open. North.
Where are you thinking about moving?
Not sure yet. I can see you’re all in anti Russia or turkey. Decided to leave the Germans alone?
For now.  I can take on Russia if you do France
You have a deal
You're fighting a good fight.  I'm sending Italy around to help you out with France
Germany is becoming a problem. Where do you stand with them?
Germany and I have chatted more than you and I have but I'm more occupied with the East
Why?
Also what's the deal with France?
Why what?
France is putting up a little fight.
What’s happening with you and turkey?
Turkeys done
As is Russia
Good take of STP
France is such a dumbass
You taking Mos here?
Possibly
You think?
Lol, realized I never gave the thumbs up or thumbs down so the message never sent.
Turkey is donezo
I need you to keep Germany from getting Moscow. I don't care if you get it or not, but Germany is playing a poor game and it shouldn't be rewarded.
Are you asking me to support Warsaw or not support Germany in? Those are two different requests.
Ideally you take Germany on while he's shifting his stuff pointlessly east
I can support it. Just don't support him in
Why is it pointless? How does that benefit me?
He was moving on Russia so he could reap the rewards of the Tsar's fall.  It wasn't the cause of any good will towards you.  He's an opportunist and with France locked up by you and Italy and Russia increasingly locked up by you and Turkey, there's only one place for him to attack
He's asked me many times about the best way to attack you, and was setting up for it until I told him Russia was done.
Would love to sit down and talk tonight
Sure thing
Can we talk long term here? What's the goal of the game? Where do you go now, with Turkey and Germany at the extent of your border?
Would love to talk for a bit
I'll take on Germany with you, but we need to talk it out.  We can't do it alone
Are you online? We need to talk really quick
Sorry, busy week
You free for a bit now? I'm at work but can carry on an infrequent convo
Sure
Asking honestly, what are your plans for expansion now? Russia is gone, France nearly so. Where do you go next?
Trying to fend you off and sweep up the rest of France. Not sure much past that.
At least you're honest 😂
Let's get real here, you and I are the best players on this board.  I don't know how you got Germany to work with you, but you're obviously a diplomatic force to be reckoned with.  I'm willing to help you get a leg up on G here
You've shut yourself out of most of your expansion opportunities except for Germany, but I can lend an assisting hand if you take him on
I want to see you succeed here, good play should be rewarded
I can get you Warsaw here
What happens after Warsaw?
You finish Germany, I finish Turkey
You then finish France, I help out by taking Italy
That's a stalemate line and a draw if we do it right
Thoughts?
Interesting proposition. My biggest concern is that I’ve left myself open to Germany in the north. Grabbing Warsaw would ensure that I lose Norway and he has a clear path to my island.
Germany trusts you after that support into Paris.  Now is the time to move and take advantage of that.  I can support you into Warsaw if you need
Right now I'm just planning to defend Sev, I have no plans to open up additional fronts against you. I have enough enemies as is
Still there?
Well actions will speak here. Let’s see how things shake out this year.
I need to be sure that you're not supporting Turkey against me here or I'll just take Moscow.  There's too much on the line for us to just wait this out
It’s hard to build trust in this game quickly. I understand the urgency though.
Thanks
I would really appreciate affirmation about your not helping Turkey back in
I can’t flip on Germany until we have a more established relationship. If we want to build that we need to take small leaps of faith. I will not support turkey. Please do not take Moscow. If that goes, we can start planning more seriously against Germany
That works for me.  Thanks for checking in
Thank you
Did you ask Germany to take the North Sea?
Hey, if Germany invaded you without your permission, I'm all in with you.
He's now the largest on the map with free access to Norway and Edinburgh.  Let's start pushing back on hin
Can we talk about Germany for a sec?
yes, i'm sorry i've been ignoring you
Hahaha I get worried sometimes
I've been trying to talk to him but things seem to be breaking down
what do you have in mind?
How so?
The dude needs to be taken out for any of us to have a chance.  He has the most SCs on the board and potential to take more from you, whcih I don't want to see
neither do I, but i'm not sure what we can coordinate together
Let's talk about Warsaw
what you thinking?
One of us has to move into it by the end of the year. Germany is building to move against me, Turkey is still a pain in the butt, and Italy is getting testy.  I need your help to crack this dude, and I can't be running damage control for the board on my own
can we wait until the fall?
We really shouldn't wait.  I've watched him amass power and move into every sector of the board without resistance
What do you want to wait for?
Just curious
I want to see how he moves before I full on stab him
Let's imagine if he moves into Edinburgh and towards Norway....at that point it's too late to respond.
Berlin will be in Prussia by that time, holding Warsaw against any of our attacks and threatening your single unit covering both Moscow and St Petersburg
That's a two center pickup at that point and no one can stop him.  This move could determine the game.  I don't want to see us sleeping on the next three movesets
Thoughts?  I know this is a lot to process, but I've seen a lot of Diplomacy games, and I've had some go south on its participants very quickly
And I really want to finalize my moveset before midnight
sorry, i'm on the west coast and still at work and still slammed
give me an hour
Good deal
Anything?
Yes
I managed to piss Germany off for you 😉
Germany is talking to me about heading back
How do?
So
Heading back for what?
I need to sleep soon
You ask for a pause?
Trying to decide if it's worth staying up for
Any final thoughts?
I submitted
What should I expect?
You want support into Warsaw?
I’m supporting you
We'll find out in two seconds
I’m not supporting you
Yeah I said that you lied on the last message lol
Lol
Not a bad turn for us I guess
Could have gone a lot worse
Glad that I at least got him to mess up your convoy lol
Small wins
What’s the plan now?
You seem pretty well entrenched
That’s a fair observation
Is there any point in talking? We know what the other wants, and those wants are at odds.  It's going to be a N/S stalemate line for the rest of the game unless Italy or Turkey screws up
What do you think I want?
If you didn't want to take advantage of G earlier, you missed your chance.  The fronts will just solidify from now on
So what do you think I want then?
Hopefully you want to draw this out at this point.  Unless Italy fucks up, that's what should be happening
A kinda sad end to what was a good start
Interesting. Not sure that’s what I want.
Why don't you tell me then
Well of course (as anyone) I’d like to solo but I don’t think that’s in the cards. I’d like to see things shake up once the battle lines are drawn. Not sure if we’re there yet though.
That mostly comes from Germany in the east
As far as Tyr and Marseilles go
😺
Sharing a face palm with the world i see
I hate myself
Lol
Hey Turkey! How are you doing? Looking forward to working with you this game!
You there? Would love to talk strategy at some point
Hey Austria, yeah, I'm around
Good to hear from you! How's your night?
I'm kind of getting the grips on this game
No worries! Are you friend of admin?
Yep, get dragged into a lotta things. Must say this is kind of out there
Anyway, Russia is kind of scary. They start with 4 units
You play Diplomacy before?
Yeah they are.  I'd love to take him out asap honestly
I'm not sure I can do that much but I'm happy to help
If you trust me, I can coach us both through advantageously
You don't know who I am, but I was the #1 player on the Diplomacy app Conspiracy and I run the largest only Diplomacy tournament in the world, so I can coach us both through to a pretty good result
Ah that's cool. Yeah I'm afraid I'm gonna get stuck in a snag somewhere.
In general I was hoping to at least take the black sea and kind of capture the supply center in bulgaria
I'm not so sure about what to do beyond that
Those are both good starts.  I suggest sending that second unit to Armenia
It will make the attack on Russia far more effective in the future
Like setting up a move sequence in chess
I read that sending the smy to constantinople was good
Yeah, that's a typical move too
The Arm sequence indicates a hard commit against Russia, which is why it's not quite as often used, but I'm hard commiting against Russia so I would love for you to do the same
I'm happy to support you if I can get sevastopol
That's the hope!
How would the army to armenia play out? I suppose the fleet in sevastopol either goes to black sea or rumania. Probably black sea... Do you plan to go to Rumania first?
I wasn't planning to go to Rum first, should I?
Alright, will you be able to provide support to attack sevastopol?
Can I do it in the next spring? I'm not adjacent to Sev here
I could go to Rum for some more support to assault sevastopol?
You could.  I suggest it
That went pretty well
lol, amazing
Good work!
Glad to see Russia down a peg here
Nothing? Whats the plan here? Unfortunate for the two of us that Russia left that fleet in the Black Sea :/
Yeah I'm not sure what his play is. Russia seems very inconsistent
I think I'll need a few turns before I could move north to attack russia though. What is a good plan from here?
Looks like you're pretty committed North already, the fleet builds sold it
You're in a good spot.  You should take the Black Sea here, that will give you a ton of leverage in the future
So are we just coordinating anymore? You might as well just tell me you want to attack me
Hi! I'm actually away from home so I haven't been paying too close attention yet.
Yeah I'll take care of that fleet in Bla. Then with +1 support it should be easy to move on to mos
Looks like we were always at war with Eurasia after all
Seems as if.  What's the plan?
Poor russia
I feel bad but I ended up going to sleep before I got a response from you so I figured you were out to attack me
Very poor Russia.  The worst possible start
You squeezed him too hard and now he's dead 😦
I didn't squeeze him haha
But yeah, we had a good mutual effort there
Mutual, as in, he got his stuff destroyed while he got walked over huh
I mean, he's partially to blame of course
Anyway, i don't think I'm doing too badly for my first gae
I haven't "attacked" you so far either nor have I had the opportunity to
besides claiming centers that are close to me
You're not doing badly!
Just need to keep that momentum going
Eh, I'm good with what I have/had.
An attack of strength ~~3~~ 4: for when you really really really ~~really~~ want that region 😭
Yeah.....
Italy is such a pain in my ass
I must say I agree
You online?
Yep
It's going poorly for me but I'm a rational player so if you wanna suggest something go ahead
I'm thinking. It's tough because I'd rather keep it clean than overtly lie to you, I'm not that type of player. Honestly, you're in a tough spot
Sure am
You request the pause?
So believe it or not, I may actually have to work with you if I don't want E or G to win
I believe you because I can see that happening too
So plan out a fair strategy.  Wouldn't be surprised if you were mad but I'm willing to put some of that shit behind for the good of the game and the players on the losing end of it
Alright, but here's the thing. 2/3 of turkey is occupied by you and italy. So the payment would come out of your own pocket
Like, I'm willing to look beyond there and consider maybe russia or italy
I'm willing to sacrifice a little but not much.  I'm the main line of defense against Germany rn.
At least you're semi reasonable about it.  Many aren't
I also don't want germany to win. And I can see that you're being pressured
If you were to fall to germany (completely) that would be bad for me too
Right
My guess is they're looking to draw it out at this point unless someone has a 1909 stab
Englad is getting some reinforcements to Stp now
Yeah, I see.  We need to move this turn
Honestly I should have reached out last turn but I thought I had a good guess left in me
i think if we can come to a nonagression accross the Turkey Straits that would be beneficial for both of us
You can use the armies stationed there now for your defense while I rebuild and attempt to go north
That's fine
If you are okay with that then I will take Con, build an army in Ank and then take Smy
You don't need Con and Amy right now.  This only works if we give up what we have to.  I can give you Con, but your units won't have anywhere to go after that, esp if we can't break you out of Sev here
Is this about moscow? I don't have a way to hold onto that yet.
Yeah, but we have to move fast, esp as that English reinforcement is coming soon
As they lock down, we need to move fast and keep them guessing
If I would be able to take Moscow with you support then in Fall I would be surrounded by three angry armies
Is there a step two to this plan?
Frankly, I'm not sure we get far anyway, but we don't get anywhere if Moscow is supported by STP next turn
I can see what you're saying but I am not afforded the luxury of a gamble at this point in the game
You're not, but you won't later either.  You can still hold Moscow with your fleet plus my army, and worst comes to worst, your army would be loose behind their front.  The alternative is we continue to attack you and we all lost out.  Italy, me, you
I don't want to play that game
I think the only way I can hold moscow is if you move A rum - Sev while I go to moscow. Then next turn we can hold it.
For you to hold Rum, then, you'd retreat A Con - Bul simultaneously
Of course my fleet cannot support my army in moscow
Why not? Genuinely curous
Oh, never
I misread your statement
Oh, so give me your moves right now, I want to confirm this. I have to sleep in a sec
I'm not going for moscow. It's too far of a stretch at the moment
Hey, I'm going to be away for a bit but just wanted to prod you prior to that about plans.
I hope to stay neutral for now though I'm not sure what germany & england will think of that
To be upfront with you, I'm not particularly happy with your moveset
I gave you Con to solidify our line and you not only didn't do that, but you attacked the remaining stalemate ally
What do you mean by solidify the line?
Against the Germans and the English?
I think we agreed to a ceasefire? The moscow plan was very wild at the time. I'm going to be busy for two days so I'll stay as I am for a bit and not attack any positions.
I plan to build a fleet in Con unless you have a better idea. I do not plan to do anything with said fleet. It's just for my own protection.
I'm read to attempt some push in the coming year if you have a suggestion
For example, I could attempt A Sev- Ukr after I move A Smy-Arm
Such that in the season after I can do a supported attack on moscow or something else.
You're a dick dude.  I will make sure that that's the last one you take.  I'll let E/G walk over me of I have to
I don't understand why people kill their own chances to survive games.  What's wrong with holding the line? It's so frustrating playing with players that would rather sabotage themselves than work with a teammate
You exist because of me.  And you made a terrible, terrible strategic move
Good talk
Hey France! Looking forward to playing with you!
👌
You too man
The chats are so funny....yeah, I think your :ok_hand is telling the truth 😂
it said send an emoji and I dont read instructions as a matter of principle
Yeah, rip
That went well for you
It did, so far so good
I don't really have anything else for you lol, just keeping lines open
Thanks.  What are negotiations like in the west?
Quiet out there apparently....
Not much going on, England is strong and Germany is worried about Russia
Yeah I see that
What are your plans now?
Need to think a bit
Italy’s move was not great for me, but he’s very concerned about Trieste apparently
Thanks for the info
That's a pretty blatently bad disband though
That'll be tough to sell
Hey you there?
You ask for the pause? Good work on holding off the Atlantic so far. You've been in a tough spot
Hello Russia. Have you worked out what you’re doing with turkey and Austria yet? I’m thinking of going anti Germany but want to see how we align in the north first.
I sent Turkey a message but still waiting on a reply. I wanted to go anti-Germany too if you want to split the population centers? But if I don’t hear back from Turkey I may have to fortify my South flank and enter the Balkan’s even though I don’t want to.
I moving to pressureGermany but I could use assistance on your end. Willing to share any gains that could result.
Yikes. You have some Turkish trouble. I’ll plan on moving into helgoland bight
Yea, that’s always annoying playing as Russia. Trying to get AH to help out but I have to move one of my troops back West away from pressuring Germany. Oh well.
That’s a shame. Let’s reassess after you handle your problems in the east.
Hey man. Let me know if you wanna support my fleet moving to Sweden. Would pressure Germany and keep me a,Ive with a new supply center in my fight in the sky th with Turkey. I’m gonna need all the help I can get there but have AH help to keep me alive down there.
Yes, Turkey has been a real thorn in your side. I’d like to see some pressure on Germany to ease off my unit in Belgium. If I support you into Sweden, will you support me into Denmark?
Definitely.
Hi Russia, It seems we are pitted against some dangerous opponents this time
I do plan to F Ank -Bla. If you wish you may wish to F Sev - Bla as well.
Hi Russia, I think we should come to some mutual understanding here or things will turn out bad for the both of us.
Look -- I know I took Sev, but I will not be able to take Moscov and it's honestly a waste of time for the both of us. I'd rather focus on Austria & Italy.
If you decommision the fleet in Bla I will attempt to move out of Sev.
And go to Rumania
I was going to decommission the army in Prussia. You can just move the army to Romania and I’ll return the fleet to Sev. I’m willing to help you switch your focus to AH and Italy, and even help you eventually but we need to build the trust before I decommission the fleet in Black Sea I think.
Honestly the smarter move would have been for us to work together from the beginning but there’s a lot of innate distrust built in to the game between Russia and Turkey haha.
Turkey and Russia are great allies. The rough part is the fleet in Bla. If we can get past that things could much better for both of us.
As far as I can see, the fleet in Bla does not serve you a strategic purpose since I cannot afford to move more units north without giving up my flank to Austria
And of course I cannot take Moscow with just 1 army.
I do expect my Sev army to get bounced at least in spring though but with the fleet in Bla I can F Bla S A Sev - Rum
Ok that makes sense. The Black Sea sucks.
Feel free to A War - Mos just in case. However, I would appreciate having an alliance in the future. Do you think there's a possibilty for you attack Budapest? I could support you from Rum
Then, in turn, I can get Serbia
I am sad to see you changed your mind.
Doesn’t really matter anymore. I’m done.
Wished it could've turned out differently. I honestly was willing to work with you last year
Yea, honestly I screwed up from the beginning. We should have teamed up from the beginning. Was my first t8me as Russia and I failed spectacularly haha.
I think, yeah, 1901 went extremely poorly for you but I think I had a decent plan for your recover at least. Not sure if could've won but at least restored to 4 CP and then push into austria
I basically ignored you and pushed East to Germany right away. Terrible strategy as Russia.
I mean, you could've grabbed berlin but decied to hold in Pru. That confused me greatly. At the same time germany and england were conspiring against you with northern openings
England was talking to me about going after Germany.i know now that was BS. Anyway, I shouldn’t have gone after Germany right away anyway.
Yeah, retrospect is easy.  I'm expecting A Gal -War. At least I'm not going to move A Sev - Rum so perhaps you can block austria from getting too far ahead?
Unless you wish to exit the game quickly, then A Mos  -Ukr would be appreciated 😃
open
Hey Russia, just keeping lines ope
Austria and Italy are allying FYI
Ok thanks. I told Italy t9 go after AH haha. They kind of have to as the 2 weakest starting countries really. Or 1 screws the other. I think I’m safe early on but Turkey might have some problems.
Hi England, I've been kinda occupied with Russia & Italy so far, but it seems things may be becoming relevant to us. It seems likely to me that A War will move to Mos to support taking back Sev.
Hi England, nice capture of Stp there. I think we're trying to figure something out against the Austria & Italy alliance
If you can move the army in Nwy over, would you want to split moscow and  warsaw? I get moscow, you warsaw
Hey England, can we come to a deal about moscow?
Good question. A bounce there would be silly. What do have in mind?
I'm okay with you taking moscov for now but would really like some support in holding Sev
That sounds like a good deal to me.
Support me in?
Sure but there's a good chance of A rum - sev so don't count on it
Let’s see what happens.
It would probably be best if you move A Mos - Sev and bump with austria's army there
Unless you need to support germany on warsaw?
I should have talked to you in time
I was supporting you in
Want me to support you into sev?
Yes please
This is bit uncomfortable though because it's likely I'll lose something in the south because of it
Are you still around?
I’m supporting you in
Can you please confirm that you will be moving Armenia to sev supported by Black Sea? I need to knock Austria out of there so he doesn’t break into the north.
This only has a point if germany helps out too. Otherwise he could have a defense strength of 3
I had it all set up but didn’t hear back from you so we didn’t go ahead with it
Supporting is always better than holding 😃 except for diplomatic reasons
So let's give it a try this time ok?
I think Germany is also willing to help
So are you ready to force sev now?
Are you still on?
Yes
Germany is on board
I'm trying to figure out what's gonna happen to Turkey while I'm away
you are turkey
what do you mean
Are you ready?
I'm talking about the four units ready to invade my homeland
well i'm interested in seeing you survive as long as possible
Like, it's a gamble either way.
If I go to Sev I will lose 2 terrotories in Turkey
sev can be forced if i suport and germany taps ukraine
so would you rather cover smyrna?
I'm considering going to Sev in Fall so that I trade 1 territory for 1
Do we believe italy and austria to be big buddies still?
they're very buddy buddy
Ok, then I go for Sev now
You will support A Arm - Sev?
yes
talk to germany
Let’s try it again. You have to talk to Germany
Look, it's in your interest to get austria out of there asap too because he could send you packing at any time with a supported attack from ukraine
Plus you wouldn't want Germany to win against Austria too easily either
But it looks like Germany now approves this attack
Great. Supporting you in.
Alright, so what's your general plan here? If germany stomps austria we need to be prepared. First thing he will probably move his fleets into Edi
I’ve been trying to think about the stab. I’m not sure it’s the right time now.
I think Austria can crumble really quickly. After that we need to come up with some plan. Like, I'm happy to try to push into the Balkans. That should tie down a few troops, but I'm probably still outnumbered.
What do you suggest?
When germany pushes into austria but before winter (when G gets to build more troops), his northern flank is quite empty. Specificallly, you may be able to take warsaw
and denmark
and how are you going to help this cause?
I agree that he can't get too big
So we're gonna go and work on Austria who has gotten really angry over things... But besides that, that means me _and Germany_ will get a few more troops. So either you need to make your move before that happens or have a plan for afterwards.
let's move now
Hi, what's the plan?
Not sure. You need to move into sev
I can do that, yeah
But I'm not sure how to help with that further
I’m supporting rum to ukr
Hello friend. I’m a big fan of early cooperation between us early on. If we end up fighting over the channel, Germany usually swoops in with Russia. What do you think about a DMZ in the channel?
Sounds good
That went well. We can keep the DMZ in the Channel, it looks like its working well for both of us, and Germany might have some problems coming up
Sounds great. I’m still chatting with Germany and Russia to see what’s gonna happen up north.
sounds good
Things are shaking out strange up north. You seem to have some Italian troubles. Have you spoken with Italy to find out where his fleets are headed?
I’m supporting Paris to burgundy FYI
Hello France
How you doing?
Any chance you’d support me into Spain?
I can offer keeping you in the game so you make the draw.
Hi France, I'm a little bit nervous about an Austrian-Italian alliance would you mind mutually sharing information on their intentions?
Sure, although all Austria has done is complain about their country so far lol
Austria seems very knowledgeable so I would take whatever is said with a grain of salt
Austria and Italy seem to have made a peacefire for the start of the game at least
Have you talked to England or Germany?
Yeah; fairly@standard stuff given that we all pretty much have to attack each other at some point
I think I may be able to come to an agreement with Italy to focus on Austria for the moment. Would you be willing ceasefire with Italy and leave Pie empty? This would leave you able to move north.
Did Italy contact you?
If they did not, they're likely still allied with Austria and will attack both you and me
He contacted me
To@assure me that moving to Piedmont isn’t an act of war, which seems laughable but is manageable
Russia isn’t a threat at all to you though, so that’s good
I'm pretty sure Austria & Italy are going to do a Lepanto to Smy or Syria
Italy very badly didn't want me to build a fleet in Smy...
You don’t think Austria is stabbing Italy? One move and he’s done
If Austria does, then he won't be able to finish me off
So I think that's why he will wait until he's got the balkans and is ready to stab italy
Look like Italy may be refocusing west?
Thats my read yeah
Nope, still tried to stab me
Buongiorno and hi there, King in the North! How are things in the most central power of Europe?
Can I get in early to raise the question of Tyrolia? Not immensely keen to get stuck in a standoff near Venice, but still less so to see black uniforms heading south lol
Greetings! Queen, actually
Yes, that sounds good to me
Queen in the North, Queen in the South :3 You understand I had to play the odds though, yes? 

What vibe are you getting off Russia? And has England reached out to you yet?
Haha, yes I get it 😃
I can't tell much from either of them. what about you?
My first online game (still ongoing by the way) I still have people calling me “he” and I’ve given up correcting them 😂 I suppose it’s not that big a deal. But very cool to have some company this game.

England I don’t have a solid read off, but he’s basically just nudged me to see how I am and that’s as far as we’ve gone. Russia seems to have big plans, but I have no reason to believe he hasn’t made the same overtures elsewhere, you know? Still, he seems more concrete.
What do you do when you’re not, you know, Central Europe? Grad student here.
I'm currently a student as well. I was previously an engineer, so I definitely got used to the female minority thing hahah
Yeah i feel like England has some options open, not sure what he's going for
I haven't heard anything informative from Russia yet
Why yes, yes I am an engineering student! So I know how it can be. There's sixteen of us in one of my classes and I am one of two (count them, two) women there. Which I don't get. Engineering requires *some* strength maybe, but it's absolutely not a "man only" profession.
Anything new in the North this year, my friend? It's been a long day on campus, so checking in with the state of Europe before I settle in for the night.
Good morning! I haven’t checked in with anyone this season yet, I will keep you posted though!
And a good day ahead to you! Are you thinking of contesting Sweden this season? Idle curiosity, I'm talking with Russia about the South but I won't share your thoughts with him.
Hmm I don't know yet. Seems like he's trying to go west?
Russia? Possibly, he’s going into Austria or Turkey it’s just a question of who.
Have you made a decision in the west? If you do decide you’re attacking France, please let me know and I have a proposal to share with you.
It’s the funniest thing, o Queen in the North. I’ve been chatting with folk (not a great deal else to do as Italy at this point) and one common theme keeps coming up; Russia offering them an alliance. He’s offered one to me. He’s offered one to Turkey, and to Austria. He’s offered one to England, and I presume he’s offered one to you. If I had to play the odds I’d guess he’s offered one to France as well, but the President and I aren’t really on those friendly terms. 

Can you confirm your part of this, and what he’s trying to persuade you to in an alliance? And if so, what should we do about this? It can be useful having a completely unscrupulous archtraitor around, if we know who that is and don’t let them get so powerful that their opportunism backfired on us.
Yes, I have found the same to be true about Russia, but he hasn't responded to anything aside from the initial alliance offer so I am unsure of his plans
So one of my friends online tells me I shouldn't out myself gender-wise in the game, that people will use it against me. Have you found that to be true, or any particular bias from other players?
Oh interesting. I could see that being the case, I don’t know if it’s caused problems for me or not. Honestly I find it interesting/amusing to see how or if people react. Similar to my experience as a female engineer, I notice that some people act surprised or change behavior (which can potentially be annoying) but I don’t think it’s put a target on my back necessarily. Have you noticed anything?
I wouldn't have thought so before today. Just like you say, a bit of surprise, sometimes a flash of interest from the especially thirsty and then we just move on as normal. If it's disadvantaged me I've never noticed it and I said as much to my friend at the time. But then I found myself on the receiving end of: 

New Message
Message
Ok lol. I'll check in with you in a couple days [redacted]
Dated
Fall, 1901
Do you think the sender is telling the truth?
I'm not precious and my thick skin is firmly back in place. But other than offending me I'm not really sure what he was trying to achieve. Annoying me? Confusing me?
-_____- Wow, yikes. That’s really disappointing. Extra frustrating because if you respond at all you could solidify an enemy, so it kind of ties your hands
He *did* give me a few days I guess! I figure I'll give him a few more hours of icy silence and then move on.
Anything new coming up diplomatically in the north? The diplomatic channels have all gone quiet to Italy, but I think that's mostly people being busy over the weekend.

I'm not terribly worried.
Quiet here too 😃
I'm strongly considering moving west against France. A combination of France in Spain (South coast), Marseilles and a few disturbing rumours I've heard down the grapevine, matched with having no idea what on earth is going on East of me. 

Any chance you and England are considering a similar move?
It seems like England and I are both more focused on countries to our East at the moment. I still cannot tell who Russia is working with
Neither can we really. Okay, then I still need to be nervous about what France is up to and whether it’s me.
I think you may be right. If you still have  proposal for an attack against France, let me know
Oh yes. France just waltzed across the DMZ line he agreed to, so it looks like my nerves were spot on. That leaves me much more keen to fight him - and ideally profit by it - than on plunging into the uncertainty east of me. 

We would welcome your support, and given that France has exposed himself to your border I feel it would be decisive as well as lucrative.
So... is that a yes, friend Queen? There are rumors of a Western Triple, but I think if we strike west (okay mostly you) could resolve the situation there while things are still resolving in the east.
Queen! Sorry for the delay.  I say yes, but probably can't help much for another season or two (I don't want to overcommit). You should have unencumbered access to France this season though.
Barring the entire French military lined up at my border, of course! I'll see what I can do. At least he's not getting any deeper into Italy.
My friend, why? France still isn’t going to make any progress... unless you open the door for him by attacking your two natural allies from Munich and Bohemia of course. 

Still hoping this is part of a clever ruse on your part, or that you’re headed for Russia somehow. 

Central Alliance!
My fellow Queen, I can assure you my primary focus is Russia. I’m trying to work with Austria against him, and then hopefully we don’t have to worry as much about the east!
That is a relief to hear, my fellow Queen. I’m hoping to begin pushing back against France in the new year, and the Army in Tyrolia is fairly key to getting that process begun.
England and I will be happy to help you as we can, if you can work on swinging Austria towards Turkey.
England should be communicating as such too
Austria will help me kill Turkey when I'm in a position to act against Turkey myself. I'm encouraging him to work with Turkey in the interim to keep Russia in check, but until I can safely move away from France - safely, not just with a season before he turns on me again - we can't afford an eastern war.
Ok, that makes sense. Let’s keep each other posted on the Austria/turkey/Russia situation
Absolutely. And if I can help you two silence mini Napoleon, I will.
Hi fellow queen, hope you had a nice weekend 😃
Do you have plans this season? Have you been able to coordinate with Austria? England and I are wondering what you’re thinking so we can all work together on figuring out what to do re:France
Austria seems more concerned with Russia/Warsaw at the moment, not sure what you two have communicated about
Hi fellow queen! Yes it was good, I had a wonderful (and rare) chance to spend a couple of days with my SO so I appreciated the slow update time and wasn't as much online as usual.

This season I'm mostly expecting to be fighting France. I'm glad to see him rushing back to defend himself against you two, but I'd be a poor friend if I left you to fight him on your own after you'd come in to save me in the first place. I'm hoping I can get some pressure on Marseilles, and I'm seeing if I can get around him into the MAO maybe.

What are your plans? Any way we can coordinate usefully?

Austria is mostly looking at the east, although he did say he was glad to see we had England occupied with France. So that's nice.
What did you do with yours?
Hi! Sounds like a nice weekend! Mine was good too, I went to a bachelorette party
I am trying to set myself up to team up with Austria against Russia, but not spread myself too thin either...I am trying to decide if I should attempt to bounce with France again in Bur, but if he moves away from you into Gas instead, it leaves me surrounded
I think the deciding factor is what and when we do about England. He's potentially a very strong ally for either or both of us, but only if he's prepared to fight against France and then northern Russia only. Otherwise he makes it very hard for you and I to cooperate against an eastern enemy without keeping an eye to our west, don't you think? I'm hoping to move into France this turn, but I'm unsure if I'll be able to clear Marseilles until Fall.
Sorry for the delayed response! Been busy with school stuff.
I hear that. I've been sick and just trying to catch up on school things today. Hope the bachelorette party went well? I've not actually been on one of those, what sorts of things did you do?
At the moment, I’ve been able to cooperate well with England and he seems willing to help us out against France and Russia, so hopefully it will stay well balanced a little longer. He’s apparently been busy as well so I’m not sure his plans yet. At this point I don’t think either of us can count on France as an ally haha, so I think it’s best to keep England on our good side for now
Oh no, hope you feel better soon! The party was fun, we went out for dinner, etc and stayed at a house in the mountains
I agree, and I think we can safely consider France as doomed. I'm not saying England isn't sincere in that goal as well, but I'm trying to look at next year's problems. Or the year after that. When France is down and we're looking at what to do about Turkey - or England as the case may be. 

Probably if I sat on Portugal/Spain/MAO I could quite comfortably work with England, but that puts him into the position of going through you or northern Russia. Since you haven't tried to play me yet (or you're doing so well I haven't noticed yet lol), I know who I'll pick if I'm forced to.

Thanks! Yes I'm better now, just headachey. That sounds amazing, and I love the overnight together with friends. It sounds like so much fun, and a chance to catch up with her tribe before she marries into a new one :3
Yes, I agree.  I’m worried about England turning on me before France is sufficiently weakened, I think the two of them are still on decent terms (hard to tell with only these one on one conversations)
Which... is probably why it's set up this way.

Can you tell me what happened with Holland? I asked England and he changed the subject. Was that agreed?
Haha true
Honestly your guess is as good as mine hahah. It was not agreed that he’d take it but it was agreed that he’d give it back
It managed to spook me. I still see him at 7 units, though I know he's settled down a little. 2 Armies and 4 Fleets... still makes him the most powerful person on the board. 

Which makes the division of France important, I guess.

Do you care what I build with my French builds, when I do?
Anyways, I don’t think you’ve tried to play me either, so I will have your back when the time comes!
England asked me if I'd been organising a proxy war against him... then seemed surprised when I had to ask him what that was 😂
Apparently France is telling England I told him that I was nervous of England's builds (which is true) and that I was trying to manipulate him (which is not)
I don’t have a strong preference. I will probably build armies next time I’m able to in order to work in Central Europe, so maybe by building fleet we will balance out?
Interesting....Yeah I can’t really tell what his long game is. I get the sense he was worried about making too many enemies from the get-go which is why he pulled back a bit
I know you have no particular reason to believe me, but I don't lie in this game. I tried back when I played face to face and felt guilty as well as being incredibly bad at it, so it's easier to play an open game and just try to be mindful of what I say to whom. So, yes, when I saw France pouring in from the West I was very open about how nervous England made me (about the same time I was screaming to you for help lol). 

England has been very very keen for me to take on Turkey. Which I'd like to, and may mean he'll be attacking Russia then, when he's sure Turkey will be distracted from sharing in the centers. So hopefully that's what he's up to, and not looking at our centers more locally.
But -- if and when we fight England, we're going to need the fleets to do that. So without particularly planning to fight him now, I'll be watching the ship counts all around between you-and-I vs him.
Yes I agree, and too hard to keep track of what I’ve said to everyone 😂
See? Truth is SO much easier 😂
Face to face I would actually blush and start giggling if I was trying to lie to someone and they showed *any* doubt. So... yeah. Poker isn't my game I guess.
A few seasons ago, England was worried about attacking Russia while turkey was still strong. I think for him and I both, Turkey makes us nervous since we have less of a read on him. Unfortunately I haven’t heard much from England recently, so I am in the dark at this point. I hope it’s legitimate life stuff getting in the way and not him ignoring me
Have you heard from him much since the weekend?
We had a looooooong chat yesterday, when I could open my eyes. Over a dozen messages. That was when I was accused of the proxy war and had to ask what he was talking about. I didn't feel especially coherent, but reading back the messages look better than I felt. 

He's very busy though, I know. So probably if he's not talking to you it means he's sure of you?
Ok that lines up then
Lines up?
With what he's told me and when he messaged me last
Oh ^^ When did he tell you what we'd been talking about?

Like I said, open book here in Italy!
Not much! Just that he told me he was busy and couldn't discuss. I wasn't;t sure if it was a clever excuse to stonewall me or not haha
Ohhh haha
He basically just said I could give him a moveset for this season because he's too busy to discuss anything.
It's probably the 1:1 thing then
Soooo if you have any input, I'm all ears
Maybe encourage him to try for MAO and then descend on Brest next season? I don't know really. I want to see him get into northern France, but I'd prefer to see you do it.
If I cut support from Bur, he could take Pic?
That could work! I'm concerned about what MAO would do, but he'll be mainly trying to fight England off I guess.
Never mind, he apparently already entered them. I *think* he's generally holding in the west, trying to push east
He's being a little vague, is he? I guess it could be nerves... but I wish I knew what he was doing. 

I'm trying to hold Marseilles and push into Spain, for the record.
Yeah the only specific was that he's holding in Bel and he agreed to let me have Swe and get another army built for working East. I'm not sure if he wants to keep fleets  in the west or not....guess we will find out soon enough 😬
Indeed! Grabbing some food, but I'll be around after adjudication to look at the map and chat. Will you be here?
Interesting. Looks as though one or both of you have made up with France... again?
Congratulations on making it to 7 though, that was a beautifully timed move.
Sorry I missed you- ended up going to bed. and thank you!
I'm not sure about the France situation. I personally didn't talk to France at all this season. Maybe England still trusts France enough to leave him alone?
Seems like England forgot to enter his moves.....
My queen of the north... how committed are you to your attack on Austria at this point? As you probably noticed, Austria and I had just begun our attack on Turkey and now he is determined to double back and face you which I imagine means a new deal with Turkey and the reconstruction of AT block. 

Unless.

If you *are* committed to destroying him, maybe it's time we worked more directly together you and I?
My fellow queen, I didn’t want to attack Austria, but I even more so didn’t want to go after you or prod the English beast yet. So, I had the one choice of supply center to stay competitive this winter and Austria had made it too easy.  Perhaps I should have waited longer.....but it was bound to happen at some point I suppose. I would be open to working with you to destroy and divide up Austria and turkey. Let me know what you are thinking.
That seems like our best channel to make some significant progress in the game at this point. As Italy I'm generally reluctant to fight Austria if it's avoidable, but I'm in the same position as you now. I can't go West (or I couldn't at that point and now all my units are in the wrong area) and I can't fight Turkey without support. 

Now appears to the the point where we can resolve our local situation nicely. Ideally I'd prefer to appear to be moving to stop you in the Spring and then declare my true allegiances in Fall if that works for you? Maybe I could move to Tyrolia "to bounce you out" only to end up there instead, giving me more angles against Trieste in the Fall? 

The more France manages to stall or tie up England the better for us at this point, I think? There will come a time when we need to fight him to get to our two-way, and if we can get a significant number advantage before England catches on then that's all to the better. 

I don't know; what do you think? 

Is it time for us to reach for that advantage?
Yes, that all generally makes sense to me. I’m about to head out for the day but I’ll take a closer look at the map and your suggestions later today and get back to you so we can coordinate for next season. I think we can make this work.
In the meantime- have a nice Labor Day!
You too!
Ok, just looked at the board closer and I can't think of any better ideas, so lets go with your plan. And we can feel out how well Austria manages to coordinate with Turkey and decide from there how to proceed. Austria said Turkey is mad at him, so I'm not sure how strong they will be together, although I assume they will be forced to ally out of necessity
Oops I maybe misread earlier, not sure if your intent was for us to bounce in Tyr earlier, but result was the same 🙂 Are you still planning on using that unit for Tri?
No, it worked 🙂 My intent was to tell Austria I was moving to Tyr so that I'd bounce you if you moved there (true), but I didn't actually want you to go there. I'm happy with where we both ended up, and I'm definitely looking at Tri (provided I can preserve Ven in the doing).
Are you about to lose Vie? I'll try to empty Tyr this season. I'd prefer you not move there if possible, Boh would be better.
Perfect!
And  yeah, I’m assuming I’ll have to retreat from Vie. I’ll stay out of Tyr
Congrats on Tri! I’m going to retreat into Boh
Thanks! Austria is understandably annoyed with me. I’m not sure it will help to explain why, but I’m going to try it anyway. ^^
Well done with War! No build loss then.
Haha yeah Austria started sending me generic threatening messages too. He made a comment that “both of you betrayed me”, but I’m not sure if he was referring to me and you, or me and Turkey.
He’s accusing me of eating pasta now. Be still my beating heart.
Wow, what a low blow 😂
Hey there, how was your weekend?

I'm looking ahead to this year, probably cleaning up Austria and what comes next. How do you want us to handle England? I'm presuming the two of you won't have much trouble with France if and when you want it, but I'm not sure you have the fleet power to take his home centers unless you surprise him or build up immensely.
Hey! Hope you had a good weekend 🙂 Yeah, I expect Austria and France will be gone soon. Honestly I haven’t really decided what to do about England....
I need more fleets, but I also needed armies to take on Austria, which is why I’ve basically just build those so far
I’ve been keeping clear of Vienna as “your rightful territory”; are you ready to reclaim that this Fall, or want to leave that for a later turn?
I appreciate it! Yeah, it would be nice to reclaim this fall, but I’m still unsure about how safe Mun is without support from Boh
Oops never mind about Boh, I can support with Sil now
Are you able to support me into Vie this season? Also, for when you’re deciding on moves: sounds like Austria’s primary focus is Tri, although he mentioned potentially trying to get back Bud.
It depends what Austria does. Currently the only unit I can use to support Vie is in Bud, which you warn me will have any support cut. Right now I have Bud helping against Serbia, but if we feel that Vie is more important that can change.
Ok that makes sense! I’m fine with you keeping Bud helping Serbia this season
Ahhh I misunderstood. I thought you were cutting Vie... oh well ^^
Oh no! Sorry if I wasn’t clear :/
We live and we learn! 

No you were clear, I just misunderstood. It made sense when I went back to check.
What do you think of our shared King of England? ^^
So far he’s always followed through on his word
He mentioned wanting a three way tie between you, me, and him
What about you?
Same. We haven’t made many deals, but so far he’s played ball. I’m happy to go with the three-way plan. I don’t have any allies this side of the board who seem able to stick with a plan for a year at a time, so I’d prefer to work with you two.
Sounds good. I’m happy with that plan too
Hey there! Could you please support Bud - Vie in spring and then I’ll vacate it to you for Fall? I’m trying to squish the last Austrian units so Mun - Tyr would be amazing too but I’ll work around that if I need to.
I was thinking of moving Boh-Vie. Was there a reason for you to get there first?
Only that I suspect Turkey is going to cut my support ^^ I’m happy to support you in there, but I’m not confident I won’t get cut.
While if we squash them, I’ll get out and you won’t be sabotaging me in the Fall love
Move
Very happy to follow your lead though
Ok, I just played around with a few sandboxes...I think best bet is for me to go for Vie this season (i can use Gal for support) and move Mun-Tyr to force Austria to disband. Then you can focus on getting Tri and/or fighting turkey. I def trust you to vacate Vie, but it seems like there is a chance you and Turkey would bounce in Bud in the fall and then we’d get stuck. What do you think?
Turkey said he’s going for Greece this season but I don’t really trust that
I’m happy with that. As long as we force the disband so we can end this thing 😃
Sounds good 🙂
Did you get the same message I did from our noble king? <:GWowoHehe:358278238675664896>
Haha yes I did
So... do I sweep on into Turkey? I can take them, but if you and England are expecting to take a share we should talk about approach routes
A while ago England and I talked about Turkey, he said he’d use his unit in Moscow to help me into Turkey, although idk exactly how that will all play out. I’ll talk to him about it (and you can too) and keep each other in touch
Ok England is going to support me into Ukr this season, and I think Sev eventually
Can you please support Ukr - Sev?
I already have 😃
Danke 🙂
I'm not especially interested in trying to steal an advantage here. How do you feel about using your A Sev to deliver the killing blow to Ankara and then we settle with a 3-way draw in Winter 1910? 

If you'd prefer to indulge in a bit of regicide I'll be your willing ally, but I'm aware that looks like a risky proposition with my extensive southern estates.

Your call, Kaiserin!
That's just what I was thinking! I will move towards Ank on land (unless you want to set up a convoy in the Black Sea) and we can settle with the 3-way draw then
It wouldn't happen fast enough if we only have two more moves. I'll support you into Arm, and then into Ank and click the box to adjudicate early.
True. I just realized we only have two more seasons. I was a bit leery of the fact that I'll leave Sev open for England to move into, but with the time limit I guess it's a moot point
Just to make sure I understand correctly, you're saying to click the box to adjudicate once everyone submits orders in Fall 1910?
Yes please
It will just help us get there a little faster.
You’re on board with the grand convoy of 1910?
England said you were too
Yes. From Nwy to Syria, while you punch into Ankara. Party in the palace in Constantinople?
Sounds good to me!
🎉🎉
Sweden to Syria then?
Yes! It's go time
Cheers to the final season! I’ve entered my build with three-way draw selected
Hey neighbour :3 If we put our minds to it, we can either work amazingly together this game or flail pointlessly at one another while other powers rise and rise (and rise). 

I’d really like to work towards option one, so let’s agree not to attack each other between Ven - Tri? At least not this year? We have more important things to do.
That sounds good to me. I'm wary of Germany, will you watch my back if I watch yours?
I haven’t heard anything from Germany to suggest they have designs on you, but I’ll keep an eye out in comms! We all have a stake in keeping Tyrolia free. Have you spoken with Russia yet?
They seem nice enough just wanted to be careful since they haven't been speaking as much. Russia seems nice enough, haven't really gotten any info from Russia.
Russia said something to be about an alliance before, the three of us against Turkey before we turn our gaze westward. Did he mention that to you? And if so, how do you feel about it?
Italy vs Turkey is almost classic, though it does depend on an agreement like the one we discussed ^^
Well turkey just told me that he was in an agreement with Russia. Not sure if that is to try to threaten me or if Russia is just playing everyone.
Hummm. Maybe you and I should both query Russia on this and compare notes.
Juggernaut would be no fun at ALL
Russia talked about previous experience and using that to suggest going for turkey. I'd believe that, but I would also believe he playing both sides to try to Turkey then hoping to jump myself in the aftermath.
Or he could even be lying to Turkey for a S01 advantage, though that could be a little concerning. I doubt I’m in the winning draw this game but I’d prefer a little more success than being someone’s grab-bag of points ^^

It’s early yet, but how do you feel about an Italian Greece?
It'd be nice if Russia would at least let us know a bit. How do you pose the question without making russia suspicious?
I subtly said “I heard this. What’s going on?”
I didn’t say who told me mind you :3
Okay, I'll hold off and ask later so it isn't too obvious it's us talking.
Oh I hadn’t thought of that. Good idea!
Fairly conventional openings all around really, unless you’re concerned by A Gal. I see either you or Turkey could deny Greece to the other, but if you move in you lose Serbia as a build.

What if you support me into Greece instead (from Naples) and I can then either support you into Bulgaria next year or attack southern Turkey by sea as you prefer?
I'm not immediately concerned by russia's move, but it doesn't exactly seem in line with how he seemed to be aligning with us. It could also just be a soft open to not put turkey on edge. Ill support your move into Greece and by then im assuming we'll see how Russia intends to play.
Works for me. I don’t lie as a rule in these games, largely because I suck at it and it makes me uncomfortable so believe me when I say Russia’s comms to me have all been pointed at fighting Turkey. 

I’ve asked him again what’s going on. Keep you posted.
It seems the fight Turkey has a positive effect for all three of us so I think that would be the simplest action, would also make since to lie to one person as opposed to two.
I'm also planning on moving my fleet into the ADR just a heads up
He tells me he forgot to change his initial orders to Galicia (which may be true) and that the fight vs Turkey is still on (which I do believe). 

Your logic supports this as well, so I’m going to take my life in my hands and empty Venice this season, heading south.
Thanks for the heads up, but why?
Good point, realized I could support Serbia from land
F Trieste moving to Albania then? I’d ideally like to see a DMZ in the Adriatic, if you agree?
Yeah, that works fine for me
Serbia isn’t really under threat at this point. Worst comes to the worst and Bulgaria attacks and cuts your support, but if you build A Bud this year you should be good to advance into Bul in 1902 with Italian support
Speaking which, need me to get out of the way of your F Alb, or is it staying on your coast for now?
I'll probably stay coastal until we push out Turkey then figure out from there
That works fine with me.
So... about that support into Greece? Looks like Russia lied to both of us as well.
I'd believe it, though they said that they made a mistake moving into GAL and were going to move into Rum. I think that the plan to take out turkey is still happening.
you want me to support you into greece?
Well not any more since I'm in there. Fortunately I  didn't need the support you promised me last season ^_^
Honestly the way russia has been playing i'd rather they make the big pushes into turkey with our support. I feel like that gives us the best opportunity to not get double crossed by russia with the aid of turkey
Do you need my support for that, or am I good to focus on keeping France out of the Mediterranean? I had been planning on doing a second fleet and convoying into Syria, but I'm a little warier of Russia than I was last season.
I think i'm fine so far, just wanted to let you know my thoughts on russia.  I get the feeling that they will follow through until turkey is done, but that point not sure what they're next move is.
Or how much that may be impacted by England in Norway now. You would not BELIEVE the press I got from him earlier today.
From russia? Threat from England may benefit us and allow us to get more territory from turkey when the dust settles.
From England. It's not really relevant to our discussion, but I'm still a little angry about it. 

Calming though, don't worry about an emotional loose cannon to your south west ^^
Always good to hear
Russia said "their orders didn't take", kind of suspicious giving everything previous. I think they're trying to let either Turkey or I make the first aggression then decide who to support from there.
I think you’re right.
Maybe he keeps making interface errors, but I think he’s being cagey and trying to keep his options open until you two commit.
So... does that mean we do want to commit to Turkey? Or do you think we should try to seek common ground and you two hit Russia while I... do something else I guess?
I think im just going to hold until I have a clearer idea of what's going on. Russia said in the beginning they have experienced multiple games so I doubt they managed to make a mistake twice in a row.
Alright then. We have time to consider our moves over the next 2 days, but I need to brainstorm to what I can do against Turkey if you're not able to move in my support. 

Can you make any suggestions? I don't see a classic Lepanto working against two Turkish fleets facing west.
I can support your army from Gre into Bul with my fleet in Alb if you want to move into turkey. I'd like to my russia side armies where they are in case russia tries something funny. Any thoughts?
Otherwise I want to try to get a better understanding of Russia and turkey's plans while my units hold
Okay yes, please support my army Greece to Bulgaria with anything you can. I understand wanting to keep a firm border with Russia. What are your plans for Army Trieste?
Was going to let it sit, but I can move it to Ser if that makes you more comfortable. Don't want to move to Bud and make russia think im antagonizing.
Don't you already have an Army in Ser though? 

If you don't want to do anything in particular with them, you could always bounce yourself in Vienna from Trieste and Budapest? Personally I'd be happier seeing your army not next to my open home center, but I get that Russia is a bigger (more enigmatic) neighbour that you'd prefer to avoid provoking.
Still new to this really. I have my fleet and arm supporting you in Gre moving into Bul. Thought I could also move my other army into Ser
Since we have two days to make decisions. Have you considered allying with Turkey and moving onto russia? Purely speculative, but we could try to get England to push from the top and Turkey and I push from the south. Then you and I watch Germany and France to make sure they dont take advantage of England.
I’ve considered it, I think I even suggested it. It puts a lot of weight on Russia, probably enough that even he gets smooshed fast. The problem from my standpoint is that it doesn’t give me a lot to do with my two strong allies fighting north, although I suppose I could take Tunis and then move west against France? 

I’ll want a firm agreement and an open border if we do that though, because if I’m going to break into France I need to take virtually every  unit I have.
Bed now. But I’ll be up in a few and will look out for your thoughts.

Good night!
I really am nervous about your units in Albania and Serbia. I'm not sure where I'd prefer your fleet to be (unless you want me to "kill it" so you can rebuild as an army?") but I know that between that and your build in Trieste I keep getting more suspicious than you deserve.
Part of that is probably France's fleet in Spain (south coast) as well.
I'd personally prefer my units unkilled, have both of those units currently set to support you into Bulgaria
realistically the only real worry I have now is russia, I'd like to clear up something to my west that keeps me from getting sandwiched so im not really trying to fight with either you or germany.
Are you sure? There's a time honoured tradition of friendly "kills" helping with unit conversion, and it would give you an extra army instead of a fleet that's mostly trapped... ^_^ 


No, you're right. I guess this tension is getting to everyone. I'm not prepared to go to Bulgaria this season, so please don't worry about supporting me with either unit. In one of my attacks of paranoia earlier (after you didn't support me into Greece - don't worry, I'm over it!) I agreed to Turkey's request to support him into Serbia from Greece this season - a decision I now regret.
Would you prefer I tell him I'm not doing it, or that I go through with it and you block the supported attack? I wish I'd drawn another power, or that the alliances were more clear, or that we had *any* idea what was going on in Russia's head. 

I'm used to F2F play in school.  This is very different, and much murkier. And I'm still worried about France. Maybe a cautious expansion to Tunis this year is more my speed...
this is my first experience with this game so im not sure how to proceed really. all i know is that russia seems to be trying to play everyone
Oh goodness, we are doomed then. I'm not much better, I've played a couple of games with very mixed results. I agree that Russia seems to be trying get everyone onside though!

 Do you have a mentor or a friend who's played before? I'm considering asking one of my diplo friends for advice, but I'm not sure if that would be against the spirit of the study.
I asked the admin, he's happy for us to ask more experienced friends for tips. :3
To explain context, I was very spooked by your building a new army right next to my undefended home centre (in Trieste). Vienna is at least safely 1 centre away, but in Trieste means I *can't* leave Venice open no matter how much I trust you. 

Given I'm moving to Venice this season, can we please move back away again rather than staring at each other over the border?
If you're not sure, then it's better we don't do anything too bold. I'm going to tell Turkey I don't feel comfortable supporting him in attacking you (I don't) and that we should all stop and look at Russia for a bit.
Okay, to clarify then. I have my arm in Tri moving to Vie, and Alb and Ser supporting Gre into Bul.
If you're not attacking then i will just have my units hold or support
I'm not attacking. If things settle a bit and I have some assurance about what France and Russia are doing (and with the relief of Trieste opening up), maybe we can explore this in Fall to give him limited time to respond.
I am moving A Rom - Ven this season, but mostly because I'm concerned with what France is doing. If he goes somewhere other than Pied, I'll move back south or arrange a fake "fight" over Trieste if you like. 

If we arrange a bounce, it could be interesting to see who tries to take advantage of our apparent squabble :3
that would be interesting to see what happens if it appears we're fight. I'll have my Ser and Alb hold then
I’m glad I moved West! Imagine the damage France could have done if he’d broken through Venice and popped up on your other border? Let me know if you need any help from my boys in Greece who will otherwise eat souvlaki and catch up on their classical education :3
yeah, I guess france is trying to get hostile and must have some sort of non-aggression with germany and england? England asked if i got the memo on Russia, do you know what they're talking about?
I believe Russia has been offering people a lot of deals - nothing we hadn't already suspected though.
I'm curious what the memo was and who was sending it. Did england say anything to you?
He told me that Russia was trying to organise a northern alliance with him and Germany, but I wasn't certain how far I believed it. It didn't seem to make much sense with the moves we were seeing, you know?
Had heard that. Russia told me they was supporting me into bul again, but I don't think I want to make moves. I think if we can at least get Germany on our side, Turkey Germany, and myself can take out Russia.
Well Germany should want a strong Austria, right? Though I admit I'd prefer Germany help me with France!
it's up to you, I'm fine slowly taking russia out and moving my army in Vie down to support  you in Ven. If you're comfortable with that.
I'd welcome your support from Tyrolia? That should help us to push back on Piedmont if he doesn't change direction now he knows he's not going to surprise me.
Alright, I'm going to talk to Turkey to see if they're interested in make the push. Also I'm waiting to get a response from England one what they meant about the "memo about russia". If they make a push from the north we can probably take out Russia in a few seasons.
Any word? And are you still able to support my A Ven to Pie this turn? England is up to 7 now which makes me a little worried about his ultimate intentions as he may be a more polished version of our Russian neighbour (but with the centers to run for a lead, if we aren’t careful.)
Yeah. I'm about to leave Vie exposed to russia and move my fleet from Alb into Tyr. Are you talking with Turkey? Maybe support either them or me from Greece while we attack Russia in Bul?
I spoke to him this morning, he suggested I support him into Bul as part of your joint push against Russia (and a small part of it I can actually reach to support), so I agreed to do so. Is that a problem? 

If you’d prefer I do something else, please let me know; I consider you my closest ally.
No that works perfectly for me. That's what he just told me his plans were so I think we can trust him until russia is no longer a threat.
Also I have tyr supporting ven into pie
Then I will order Ven-Pie and use my fleets to counter him in TYS and in Africa. Once in Piedmont my army should be able to hold the connection with Marseilles and it becomes a fleet battle again - where I have him 3:2.

Maybe I can persuade him to go away and worry about England growing at his back.
Yeah, england is certainly getting some momentum
Possibly in the interests of board-balance we should offer a treaty to Russia after we clear the immediate area while he’s still strong enough to threaten English Scandinavia?
We could. All I know is either russia or Turkey is going to end up out of here based on our actions. Russia told me Turkeys moves didn't do anything to them and that they'd still work with me, so I'm guessing they know that our decisions make or break them.
Are you alright with me moving Tyr to Vie to prevent russia from trying to take it?
I’m fine with that, my French front is stable now thanks to your well timed assistance! England and Germany are hoping you and I will help them deal with Turkey’s expansion after France is driven back (but privately I think we need to be careful how large England gets in the meantime).

What do you need from my A Greece this season? Do you need me bringing units back east, or am I clear to keep chasing France?
I agree about the eastern front. I think Greece is fine to move back to help your push.
I'll see what I can do when I get a fleet into the right waters. I'd *like* to have that army over West, but not at the cost of losing two units for a year getting it there.
What are your plans this season? Are you ready to push up into Galicia and points Russian, or are you still eyeing Turkey?

I can't get Greece out of there yet, but hopefully if I can get a French build I can build something that will let me move it away... although we are going to need to look at Turkey eventually I know.
Looking to push for Russia. If we split on Turkey early it will only end with all of us getting overrun. Once Russia is done we can figure out how to move from there. It seems like england is fighting France and germany now so no one is going to get too much for free.
I agree. There's no sense in a war with Turkey at this point, we just need to keep an eye on his builds and where they're positioned. I'm probably tied up in the West at the moment anyway so there's a limit to how far I could help, but... I think maybe I should leave A Greece where it is rather than trying to come up with an excuse to move it back there when we're ready.

How was your weekend?
Yeah, I'm always open to a little support no matter what.
Congratulations on your build 🙂 How are things in Austria? 

With Russia descending in flames, where would you like us to look next? 

I'm still tightly embroiled in France, but I'm pretty sure I could get free of them if you needed me elsewhere.
I'd like to to go after either England or France next, but obviously I can't help too much without moving through either you or england. Once Russia is completely gone we could move on Turkey? I told Germany the only way I see any of us surviving is by working together and that the first person to betray the other two would probably just last a little longer. So I'm fine trusting the center and moving my armies east and south once russia is gone.
Russia is down to 1 center. I'd say unless you're strongly committed to not fighting Turkey before Russia is dead we may do better to move now... and offer the last Russian center to Germany as part of a deal to keep them off our back when we move?

The question is what we expect EG to do while we're moving on T. I don't have an answer to that right now, but swapping straight back to Triple has to be a temptation.
What do you say?

Do you want me to move east now, or stay in the west with France?

I agree a Triple Central Powers benefits us all here.
Depends what you're comfortable with. We can probably take out Turkey fairly quickly after Russia if we put our mind to it. That would certainly make me feel safer not having any threats to my east. But it also looks like you're making good progress in the west.
I'm concerned about what the other people will be doing while we do that. You're not wrong though. I could hack my way slowly through France, but that frees England to work his magic on Germany after Russia falls. 

Alternatively if we move on Turkey now, an angry France will probably turn back on England... or at least I hope so. 

Oh! If it comes up, England asked me if you're "doing what I tell you, or doing what Turkey tells you". 

I said you were listening to me, which is strictly true even if it doesn't mean you're like my puppet or anything. Just so you don't get the wrong idea if you hear it in press. 😂
Change of plans I'm building fleets and sailing for England.
Lol. Don't underestimate him though! I think he's very good at influencing people on the other side of the board to do what he wants, and if he's underestimating you then that's his mistake - and not one I'm going to make!

He challenged me that I was running a "proxy war"  with France, and he then had to explain what he was talking about before I could respond. I think maybe he's doing something similar, trying to keep the rest of the map in a state of tension while he carefully expands.
Yeah I'd believe that. At least he was nice enough to explain things as he sees it.  If we're going to move on Turkey what would you think the best course of action is? I think you moving your fleet in Ion to pressure Smy and Con would allow me to move and take either Bul or Sev. And then your support could help us take Ank with either the fleet or your army in Gre?
Maybe I could support you into Bul in the Spring, if you have Serbia covered? 

Meanwhile I move my fleet up to menace Smy and Con where you suggest, and then you can support my A Gre convoying into Con - or attacking Smy if that seems more vulnerable?

Once we're past Con and have him out of position, he should be easy enough to pull down before the West gets out of control. How many fleets do you think I should bring East?

How many should I leave guarding the Med?
That seems like a reasonable plan. I'm trying to get Germany onboard with taking out England in Stp so we don't have them meddling in the East. I think at this point Russia is basically a non-factor, unless we really get out-maneuvered. Once I get some sort of confirmation from Germany I'll have Rum move into Bul, and Gal into Ukr with Bud moving into Rum. Should I start moving my fleet down into Alb do you think?
I was going to say I’d prefer it stay put, but actually... how do you feel about the Adriatic? That way I can leave my A at Venice and then maybe you can convoy me into Albania in Fall? It obscures what we’re up to a little longer and gets more Italians in to Turkey
Before they can expect us.
I can move to Adr, Im going to move Gal into Ukr to prevent turkey from taking it and move Bud to Ser- to offer more protection.
turkey told germany they were moving to ukr, but i haven't heard anything from them so im assuming they know whats coming next for them.
How do you want to handle the attack into Bul? Do you want me to support you in, you support me in or you attack and I convoy into Smy?
Hello? Coming up to a decision point. I'm currently moving into Bul, but very happy to change if I hear from you in time to change my orders.
Sorry, been a bit busy with real life stuff. I'll take your support into Bul and then we can move further into Turkey.
Any thoughts on how you want to split the territory?
Okay, I'll support your A Ser to Bul?
That would be great.
In the long run I'd like to split it evenly, so if you can help me get into Smyrna in the new year and eventually you have Bul/Con and I take Smy/Ank that puts us in a good position to move into Russia when we need to and gives us a solid border to face back west.
Weren’t you convoying me across the Adriatic? A little concerning about Germany, given they’re denying you the build you deserved for Bulgaria. Maybe I can help?
I misread you previous message as a choice between my attacking with support or convoying. Hopefully my reading error doesn't set us back too much.
Also looks like Germany is allying with England. So I'm going to have to move my units back to address that threat
Since your F Adriatic doesn't need to be anywhere else, could I please get that convoy this season? Apu - Alb? Unless you need my army in the north of course, please let me know.
I'll move Pie to Tyr this season, and bounce any attempts by Germany to move an army into Tyr
Sure I can convoy. What's happening with France? You're moving all your units my way, and after the whole shakeup with Germany it has me questioning what's happening.
At the moment my plan is Turkey, just like we agreed?

I don't want to go anywhere to make you nervous - if you prefer I leave Tyrolia to you, then I will. I'm just concerned about your northern border being bare.

What would you like me to do?
Okay, I'm now in Tyrolia and Albania thanks to your support.

What would you like me to do at this point? Support vs Vienna? Probing Munich? Support you into Con or replace you at Bul?

Talk to me, friend Archduke.
I'm going to take back Vie, your support would help it look like Germany isn't going against England. After that I'm going for turkey again. Hopefully we can convince Germany to make some aggressions against England soon, they're getting way to strong for my liking.
Okay, so Tyr to support Bud or Gal to Vie? 

Do you want me doing anything with Greece or Albania, or get my fleets around his flank and start supported convoys into Smyrna?
Bud please
Now that's just rude
You’re not wrong, and I am sorry about that. For the record I was wholly committed to our attack on Turkey, so that’s the reason I was moving over. Germany’s stab and your necessary pull back to deal with it meant I had to stop and think and talk with everyone and... here we are.
at least when my people die they'll die knowing they honored their alliance. Have fun under the boots of england.
Brave people and true.
Can you say the same pasta eater?
I'm obviously fairly heavily committed to my attack on you at the moment, but I do consider Turkey's shenanigans around Bulgaria a breach so before I forgive and forget I thought I'd offer you a chance to negotiate. 

Any interest, or war to the knife?
My people dont forget
That's fair. Neither do mine, although they do forgive.
If you don't get off all those high horses your cavalry won't have anything left to ride on.
You win this time, Chef Boyardoesn'thonoralliances.
I honour every alliance, to the letter. When we were no longer allied against Turkey we were no longer allies unless we agreed on a new goal - and we didn’t.
I wish you better luck in your next game.
Unilateral decision making on Turkey. But whatever helps you eat your lasagna of deceit. Good luck on your future ventures.
I've been on both the giving and receiving ends of multiple games in which Austria, Italy, and Russia decided that their games would be much simpler if there wasn't a Turkey around, and it always was. I propose that we start the game off by coordinating a removal of Turkey before moving on to other priorities.
Seems well reasoned, coordinated, direct and decisive. Just what I like to see out of a prospective partner for the future when I'm an enthusiastic rather than dangerous player! Sure why not, I'm in - if I hear from Austria that he is as well. That would remove a lot of pressure off my immediate borders and have me looking to a future decorated in Winter and Green. What do you think?

Oh, and hi there!
Sounds excellent to me. Italy/Russia is a very strong long-term alliance.
So I've heard! I've played exactly one game as Italy since I discovered Diplomacy online (still ongoing) and our Wintergreen is presently well on the way to a three-way draw with France. If mostly because I can't persuade the Tsar that a two-way would be more interesting.
So tell me, how do you find Terraforming Mars? I'm a bit of a highkey space fanatic and one of my friends has been on me to try it forever, but I don't find I have a lot of time for gaming. Worth a look? Or something that's fun but not for long?
I've played about three dozen games at this point, I think, and every time there's something new or interesting that happens. Heartily recommended.
Ohhh I must try it then. I dabble in Kerbal when the mood suits, and I'm definitely into intrasystem expansion so it may be a great way to while away sleepless nights.
No news from Austria yet, but it's a global game and a lower chance of NMRs than usual. I'll worry if I haven't heard from him in 12 hours. Some discussion with Turkey, he seems keen for me to attack Austria and for him to expand to Bulgaria and Greece which... is fairly classic play I guess?
Yeah, no one is really doing anything out of the ordinary as far as I can tell.
Agreed, I was briefly concerned about the risks of an Anglo-German alliance, but nothing coming out of either power suggests that was any more than my paranoia at work.
If we don’t hear anything from Austria, should we consider a reverse on your original plan? Russia, Italy, Turkey vs Austria - and then Russia and Italy vs Turkey when the time comes? The West will be so relieved they aren’t looking at a Juggernaut I’ll be over the southern stalemate lines before they can stop us.
I'm fine with that. No matter what, I'm planning on you and me eventually crushing someone between us, be it Austria or Turkey.
Heh, insomniacs unite. In the spirit of full disclosure (and full diplomatic flexibility) you can generally reach me within 2 hours at most, day or night. I don’t sleep that well - but happily that’s a benefit in the global game! What is it, 2 there?
Just about. I'm not good at sleep schedules.
And, looking forward to it.
Hey there! A little bird whispered in my ear that Turkey thinks he has an agreement with you. Since Austria has finally popped up, which alliance is real?
Hello? Opening moves look largely in keeping with your suggestion against Turkey, though Galicia could mean Austria is the focus. What is the plan, alliance partner?
I'm sticking with the anti-Turkey plan - the Galicia move was an initial move that I forgot to update.
Gotcha, you may want to reassure Austria of that too. I know I’d be alarmed if I was the Archduke looking up to see the Tsar’s Imperial Guard on approach! 

Maybe use Galicia to seize Rumania to prove a point, and allay Turkey’s suspicions with your apparent attack on Austria this season?
Exactly what I'm planning to do.
Great! Sorry, I'm still new to this so when something neat occurs to me I feel the need to share my brilliant and original realisation XD
It's all good!
You gonna take a shot at Greece?
Do you think I should? I’m strongly considering it, but there’s a little voice that says not to risk the bounce and stick with the build I know I have.
Well, I told the Turk I'm supporting him into Rumania, when I'm actually supporting the Austrian into Bulgaria and myself into Rumania. So, if you go to Greece, you get the build, and you cut off the Turkish retreat, so he's stuck at 3 and we're all in place to crunch him down.
Okay, that sounds like a reasonable call I guess. Even if I bounce it denies him the retreat option, although if I’m stuck on 3 while you’re all collecting 1-2 builds I worry I’ll spend the game trying to become useful again.
You have my word that if you're left build-less, I'll give you priority in getting Austrian dots, you'll have my support in.
Alright my friend, I’ll do it.
Oh... you lied to me. Why?
Oh what the fuck Backstabbr, I swear to you I intended to do what I said, but the updated orders must not have taken. Goddammit.
Ugh and now I've got to build an army in StP, because of England
I understand completely :3 My second online game (which is still ongoing) is on Backstabbr, and two of the other players could not swear enough about the format. 

I haven't had any problems myself, other than accidentally ordering a fleet to move to an impossible Bulgarian coast and losing a year fighting Turkey (in that game).
Both Turkey and Austria are concerned about your movements and are asking me if I trust you.
I don’t think they suspect our discussions though, so there’s that!
Is a Western Triple what I think it is?
England, Germany, and France working together, yes. Bad news for both of us.
Mmm. I’m starting to suspect that’s what’s happening yeah.
France remains the question mark. But if he’s coming for me, it looks like it’s what I’ve heard
Uh oh. It looks like France is committed then, and I find it unlikely he’d leave himself wide open to England and Germany if he didn’t expect them to take his side.

How are things on your side?
I'm worried. We might need to recalculate.
Welcome back! Haven’t heard from you in a while, what’s up?
Alliance against the West?
I sent you that message yesterday and forgot to do the thumb-reaction on it, didn't notice 'til the admin just informed me
I think we have to, yeah. A blatant triple like this changes things.
Well at least the triple looks like it might be falling apart early. Have you been in touch with Austria? He seems to have written me off.
Just wanna double-check again in case my message didn't go through. At least the triple looks like it might be falling apart early. Have you been in touch with Austria? He seems to have written me off.
Austria and I have been talking, we've been buddying up a little but I'm still mindful that at some point we're going to need to sandwich him to make our <:wintergreen:613143739954888734> fly. I did encourage him to listen to Turkey's advice though, after Turkey made a number of persuasive arguments and I've agreed to help Turkey into Bulgaria this turn. I'm... not actually sure why I did that, on reflection.
No, it did come through. I wasn't terribly coherent and "viewed" the message without focusing on it
So it wasn't marked for me to read later when I actually woke up.
Ah yeah, totally legit! And, yeah, I can't imagine helping Turkey into Bul would benefit you at all.
Hi ho Mr. Pope!
Hi there your Majesty! How are things on the soggy jewel of the north? Here in the south we are cradled by the warm winds and waters of our homeland - much more conducive to religious reflection and relaxation, if not to any particular martial might.

Not these days anyway. 

What do you have lined up today?
Oh lawd, just give yourself away why dontcha lol
As for me you know just trying to eradicate Catholicism from the world
Let us stay close in communications to be better prepared for the madness to come yes
So you’re going to message the Pope pledging to eradicate Catholicism from the world? Classy stuff! 

But yes, close communications can only help us in coping and reacting to the adventures of the French. And Germans I suppose, but he hasn’t been unreasonable.
Guess you havta decide if that was a true or false statement right hehe
But not just the French and germans. As a corner power I like to talk to corner powers and you being central will obviously have influence on central powers. I find that italy can be a great ally for England as he has to play both corner and central
So the germans are already talking with you
I haven't actually played Italy with an active England since discovering diplomacy online, but in my earlier games the two tended to hold the balance of the map's fleets between them. Not to mention it's good to hear what's really going on behind the Franco-German line.
And, the Kaiser and I have communicated :3
Good to know good to know
...does that reveal more than I should be saying? Since you've cunningly deduced my identity (confirmed by Admin since I ignored your hints) you know I'm still learning to curb my tongue. I don't object to being helpful you understand, but I'm trying to improve my play!
I don't like silence and he is giving me the silent treatment so far haha
Good to know good to know
Did he make mention of russia and me asking him for alliance?
No, Germany hasn't said anything to me about Russia and you aligning with him. Should I be worried? That feels like a top-of-board alliance I should be speaking with FAT about at once...
Cunningly deduced you say? Hmm 🤔
No it seems germany is being a trickster then
How can I align with someone that doesn't speak to me
Not a problem we're ever likely to have. It's more a question of shutting me up!
Lol this is very true ;)
Question
Why you pretending to not know who I am?
Just curious is all
I was trying to keep the press clear (and trying to pretend to myself I didn't know who you were either) in case it impacted the study.
I can sing Diplomatic Ballads to you if you prefer, my Shakespeare. ^^
Aww that's music right there!
Two Powers, both alike in dignity, 
In fair Europa where we lay our scene
From ancient grudge, borne to new unity, 
As Roman prints from English soil are clean'd
From forth the fatal loins...
In other news what's your take on russia so far?
Seems direct and legit. I have no reason to distrust him so far, and I get a good vibe. And yours?
Startin to get an inkling. Not sure why yet or how but..
All the excitement going down in Scandinavia this year!
What you mean?
Everyone seems to be doing classic openings at this point, and I'm watching your, German and Russian units converging on your usual territories there.
Oh yes that
We shall see what comes of it
Very terse of you. No romance? No song? ^^
Would you like to be my queen? I will be ever so romantic then ;)
Sad to admit, you just don't have what I look for in a life partner. Tragic I know, but I'm sure you'll live.
Live I will :) but you don't need to share my bed to share my palace
I have so much to offer besides just bedside adventures
Too true! England, the land of poetry, Shakespeare
How are things with France?
And what you look for in a life partner is 
First Love&Acceptance,  then security followed by stability and good vibes and good times lots of laughter and hugs and chivalry all of which I have galore
Well, to be fair I'm the knight in my relationship :3
But yes, mostly true!
Knight or damsel we seek the same things
Justice, glory, and safety for the helpless?
For career yes but for relationship it ends up being so close to the same thing
And love, of course.
YOU WILL FALL IN LOVE
Far far too late my friend.
Ah who am I kidding, you already are!! *rears up majestically pawing the air*
You love me same way I love you. See Shakespeare knows
Hehehe
Hey do you know if russia has alliance with Turkey or austria? 
Seems weird to me that he wants a northern tripple so bad.
He just feels sketchy to me.
And what’s a northern triple when it’s at home? EGR? Agree he’s coming off all kinds of sketchy now, believe he’s offered an alliance to everyone on the board.
Alliance whore
Agreed, I guess on the basis that no one else talks in this game.
Think you could rally austria and turkey against russia with this info?
Cuz if France is not lying to me you will have some problems in the med fairly soon
I could try, sure. I’ll write something up when I’m out of gym. Being social a bit of a strain right now sorry.
No worries my dear. Take your time
Don't sell yourself *short* my dear ;)
I prefer not to sell myself at all. I'm just me in the end, and I refuse to change that for anybody.
Huh?
You're not insinuating i'm trying to buy you are you?
No England I'm not. I'm just in a mood, okay? I shouldn't be prickly.
Ok lol.  I'll check in with you in a couple days [redacted]
Sure, let’s go with that.
Actually let's not lol
Hello King England, can I ask how your three-way ended up going? Having your army safe on the continent certainly looks like a deal with one of your neighbours, and France was busy attacking Munich in the Fall.
Welp Russia is silent which breeds uncertainty which is hard to work with. I'm left with no choice but to work on getting a solid footing in scandi with germany
It's weird. I keep seeing him around - it feels like he's talking to someone, it's just not me...  

Heard anything new from France?
Nothing new from that side
Ohhh. I'm not sure why I thought your army was in Belgium. 

Why did you think France was moving into the Med?

I'm not happy with A Mar, or F Spa (sc), looking for any more fuel for my paranoia.
Idk like I said silence is uncertainty
As for why I thought he might move into the med I believe I answered that when I told you he was either lying to me or moving on you.
Yes, I saw that. I was curious what he'd actually said, lies or no.
It's fine if you prefer not to share it!
Oh that he agrees to the western triple and that he was going south.  But I'll try to find out more for you.  Like see what's up with the F-bre
Hey ms pope. You got a minute ?
I’m here. May not respond at once, but as soon as I readily can.
Were you able to get somebody's help against France or are you 1 on 1?
I’m not sure. Words of support I could build a house out of, but no tangible promises no. He seems to be wide open to you though - will you help me this season?
Not much I can do this season
Besides I'm still trying to figure out this northern bs
Hi pope, so is austria your player or Turkey's?  Could you nudge them to go keep the genie in the bottle? I can pull france away from you so ya'll  could do a lepanto
We're concerned about Russia and so we're playing nice with Turkey at the moment, but if we felt free to focus on cleaning up our yard I'm sure we could do that. I'd feel more comfortable turning my back though, if I could be assured France wasn't waiting to drive a dagger into it. Perhaps we should resolve the Western Question first?
That question will be resolved for ALL of you this season. And I can assure you russia is no longer an imminent concern. And he is very interested in dealing with the Sultan. I'm sure we have time to deal with the tzar after the sultan has a cap in his head, (or 3 lol )
The Sultan  really capitalized  diplomatically  over the russian scandal lol
Did  germany confirm with you our plans to give you some working room?
Yes, although I’m keen to help with ensuring this doesn’t become a recurring problem.
Im sorry what exactly?
Not sure I follow
If you’re going to kill France, I would like to help please.
Sure by all means, who am I to try and rob you of that delightful  pleasure
Ms. Exterminator
“And stay out!”
YAAAAS! thats the "spirit" haha
Kitsune kitsune, what are you doing!
😱
👀
Don't do it
...don’t do what, England? I’m not allying with France if that was the worry. 

How are things with you?
Lol you're even cuter when you try to act innocent.  "Sweet & innocent" as the saying goes.  And while you are sweet, innocence is far from you hehe.
I'm not referring to or insinuating that you are allying with France
I'm not referring to or insinuating that you are allying with France
But you seem so very willing to let Turkey just prow around in your backyard like he's one of Hd's sweet harmless cats
You led me yo believe you'd clean him up if I helped you with france
I should've known you would want to proxy war me lol
Er, I will?

Do you not remember me just saying last season or (two? I forget) that I wanted to see France off and be sure he wouldn’t jump on me the minute I turned my back? That’s what I’m doing here. 

Turkey is a problem for next year, when I know France is too occupied fighting you two and I can actually concentrate.

Also, don’t you insult me. ^^ I’ve never pretended to be innocent, sometimes I’m just sleepy. 

And... proxy war? What does that even mean?
Nah my dear I'd never stoop to insults
Or worse *compliments*!
Lol
You're playing a great game tho, so congratulations?
How did you think we would split France? Or did u not give it much thought?
Stop you ^^ 

The *only* reason I got back in time to stop France is because you warned me he was coming, and I’m still trailing behind the leaders. You can’t get around me that way either, you sly seducer with your honeyed words!

No, I fully expect to see you back to your former center total in no time and well on your way to a... probably two-way win. And I think my chances of being part of that are probably around 30-40% at best.
I didn’t give it much thought, I most wanted to push him back and take 1-2 centres to make it harder for him to attack me next time.
So was france lying about you voicing concerns about me?
Unfortunately I wish your expectations were well based about my gaining back my center count
In the long game? No, I told him I was worried about your early lead and that I expected you to do well this game.

Which I do.

I do suspect he’s telling you that to try to drive a wedge between us, but at that point I was still trying to persuade him to go away.

What actually happened with Belgium?
Belgium?
So you told him you expect me to do well eh. Hehe sly just like the fox you are! That's that proxy war I referred to
Oh! I didn’t realize that was a thing I’m sorry.

He just asked what I thought about you (I think? Not in a position to scroll back rn) and I told him the truth? Didn’t realize that meant we were at war O_o

Sorry?

I looked back at the map, and I meant Holland. During the time I’m pretty sure you and Germany have been a thing, you took Holland from them and then they took it back?
Hmmm interesting
For real first time you here bout proxy war?
Never heard the term, unless, I mean, you mean like during the Cold War. 

It’s really a widely known term?
Yea basically like. Where for example you and me battle for the winning position through the other nations
That is the case with stitches and myself everytime we play
So... you're aligned with France against me again? Or just relying on him to keep me busy while you devour Russia?

I'm very happy to intervene with Turkey once the situation is resolving in the West, but there's not a lot I can do about them when all my units bar one are busy over here.
Actually neither one of those "accusations" lol.
France handcuffed me with "I will throw myself towards you and let Italy have all the gains if you don't pull back." :/ and with turkey needing someone to apply the brakes on him it was a self-made decision
Ohhh England you're going to be the death of me XD

Talk to me next time, okay? I'm really not all about gaining the most SCs I can. There are other considerations, you know?

So you partly pulled back off France so I'd be stuck fighting him on my own so that... someone can apply the brakes to Turkey? I hope you weren't expecting my armies and fleets up here facing France to be involved in that. Maybe Austria can do it, since he doesn't have to worry about me any time soon?
What would you have done with France's threat of throwing all his centers to you?
Talked to you two about dividing his centers. I admit I was hoping to get into Spain and Portugal ^^ 

But I had no plans for Paris or Brest, and whatever we agreed I'd stick to.
Right but my question still stands unanswered.
Anyway that this point you can have most of France if you'd like. I'm already committed in the north east
We can work together against Turkey when the time comes for you.
Then... I don't understand the question? I thought I did answer that?
You mean what would I have done in your shoes, if he made the threat?
Right
...what I asked you to ^^ If I'm in an alliance with someone against a mutual target and the target tries to offer all his centers to one of the allies, I talk to them. The winners get to agree the terms.
In a perfect world yes. But there's such a thing as spite.
I guess so. I try to avoid it, but no one exists in a vacuum.

At least,  not yet!
Lol
Don’t you lol my dreams! ^^

ANYway. I meant that I don’t feel I’d have made the same decision (rightly or wrongly), but that I understand why you did. So no stress.
Lol
; ) hehe
I see you!! Good work Ms. Pope! Good work.
Sadly I was in a business meeting and missed my turn
So what's Austria doing?
Not sure, waiting on a reply.
This game is so slow
I do like the weekend pause though!!
Since I basically spent the weekend hand in hand with Bean, me too! I'll make time to pay attention if I need to, but I enjoyed the break.
100%
How are your family doing? Did you end up working over the weekend, or get some time with them? 

We had Father's Day in my part of the world, so touching base and sharing lunch with my dad as well.
That's very nice Vivian. So glad to hear that!! And yes I took the weekend off to feed into my family
My wife and son of course
Wow you have Austria by the balls haha
Well he was wide open and I offered him a hand against Germany while all his units were facing Turkey. 

He was kind enough to convoy me to Albania, although a season later than we'd discussed.
You going for that sexy stab or helping take Vienna back?
Well it looks like you've finally got France on the ropes. I'm still mostly stuck in the east, but want to move (smoothly, together) to cut his legs out from under him?

And what comes next?
Let's take out France first and see where we both are at that point
I get port and you get Spain?
Sure, let's do it. I've been sitting in Mar long enough I'm reasonably sure I can dart out without him trying to take Mar back.
Yea and I doubt he'll even try to take mar back out of spite to me
Well, it's Fall. After Winter he won't have the chance.

I'd appreciate if we could leave Por and Spa in their soon to be new ownership until at least the end of 1908? 

I definitely do want to find a way to work with you, but let's make that undertaking in case that proves to be impossible.

Deal?
You've got yourself a deal and have my word on it
We both can benefit from that deal
A/t became a thing again
I noticed. I'm attempting to turn T back against A, but I'm not holding my breath
Wonder if I could help influence that
It'd be welcome. I recognise we're all anonymous here, but I'm getting a little sick of being stabbed by my eastern ally repeatedly
Me: "Wait, didn't we JUST do this and that's why I'm saving you now?"
Lol that sux
Honestly I now want to wipe them both out. But that leaves me without a solid ally, so I suppose I'll need to forgive one of them.
I'm not solid :/
?
I want you to be 🙂
I suppose that was throwing out a line and hoping we could work together - you're in a position to help me East and West.
"
england
New Message
Message
Let's take out France first and see where we both are at that point" didn't exactly fill me with confidence, but if you tell me you're going to do a thing then I trust you.
Let's make this easy. Eliminate everyone else and draw with my german queen
Done and done. Who says an English King can’t have more than one Queen? Henry did it.
I'd be happy to crown you queen as well. How you like the title "Queen Vashti" ?
Not the *best* predecessor, if Germany is Esther?

I’ll take Queen Bianca thanks. Or Queen Italia
Hahah, you know the story :) I likey!!
My parents ^^
I like Queen Italia, but feels like there should be a bit more to the name
Bianca Di Medici was the handle I was using earlier. “Pope” is wrong on SO many levels
Whatever you prefer my queen ;)
My King, what do you want my F Spa to do? Up to MAO or guard Marseilles?
I'd like to set up a convoy line
Well don't forget some of us still have a war to win in the east! Can I count on you and my co-queen to help press down through Russia?
Absolutely my dear!! Which is why I want to set up a convoy line. Imagine an english convoy into Syria where Germany is a part of it!!!!
Want to start lining up the fleets right away?
I have enough to go all the way to ion with Queen Esther starting it off in nth sea
And then probably goes without saying my beautiful foreign Queens would love to allow their benevolent King Shetan The 1st to close out his empire at 12 scs generously bequeathing 11 scs to each Queen. (Not sure if that ends with a question mark or an exclamation point haha)
To my lovely and Newly wed "Queen Bianca Di Medici"
Respectfully from yours truly:  (I, King Shetan personally articulate (at least try to) *slips into vaq mode slightly* this  weird kind of love letter to "Esther Second Queen of England and Ruler of the Italians with all their subordinates.") I hereby request  that my beautiful foreign Queens would lovingly allow their benevolent "King Shetan The 1st" to close out his empire at 12 scs and in Kingly fashion  generously bequeathing 11 scs to each Queen. (Not sure if that ends with a question mark or an exclamation point haha) whew. I'm glad I'm not actually a king. Would be exhausting to always "try" to speak with eloquent fluidity
Ps no apologies for the edit as that's purely a "Kingly" attempt and doing justice to "Her Majesty's" granduer!!
Hello my Dear and Esteemed Queen Bianca :) let's do a convoy from stp aaaaaalllllllllll the way around the world into syria.
And as for my previous formal request, I have witnessed with great awe and amazement your tenacity,  and clever genius in dealing first with the Archduke and then the Sultan and I feel it is your right to have the greater wealth of my Kingdom. King Shetan is most happy to have my Queen Bianca  be wealthier  one in our relationship!! Cheers my Queen
We can do the convoy in the final season of this game, my King 🙂 I will set up my side of the convoy in Spring, and will be able to convoy as far as possible in Fall

Please do ensure France is dealt with this year my King, so we can finish with a simple 3-way union in marriage. A Ménage à Cinq is nowhere in my future plans and the only king I desire here is English. 

And you know all our wealth is shared :3
Please adjudicate when your orders are all in, we may be able to finish this a little faster perhaps?
Do you want this fall season to be the last season? If so we won't be able to convoy from stp and will have to settle for doing it from nwy.
And yes France will be a goner this year
General thread says the game will end at the end of 1910.

So... Norway works. It's not needed since we'll use Germany's Army Sev to deliver the coup de grace (Battle Queens... unite!) but will be fun for the show.
Sweden to Syria then?
Yes ma'am
The Orient Express, my King!
And so King Shetan returns to his birth place :)
Got yours set to 3 way draw?
Queen Esther and I have it set already
Good morning my Sultan, how are things? We have a number of common interests (the Balkans, Austria, the Med, Russia) and I'm looking forward to discussing them with you. Please accept this gift of fine Italian Chianti!
Buongiorno! I hope we can honestly discuss these interests as well. Are you planning to open agressively?
Buongiorno!

There's only so aggressive I *can* be, Sultan! I haven't even mentioned the idea of a Lepanto to Austria and I'm principally focused on getting a build in Tunis or Greece this year. Where are you looking at things?
Well, I would strongly encourage you to visit Tunis. In return, I'd be happy to offer you support if sometime in the future you decide the map has too much Austria on it.
Well... Tunis is pretty much guaranteed for me, and it will be there in 1902 if I find juicier fruit in 1901. Are you suggesting I try my luck in Trieste instead, and that you'll be happy to support me the war against Austria that will likely immediately follow? 

One of my friends is in another game where his I and a friendly T are advancing well against a chaotic Russia/Austria alliance.
you had me at "against Austria". Yes, I think that the two of us working together against Austria/Russia would be a good plan. And later when we trust each other better I'm sure we could coordinate in the Mediterranean to help you expand westward  while I expand north?
Some cautious discussions with Austria this Spring, and I’ve committed not to try for Trieste this year so it looks as though it will be a single build winter. For you as well, or have you been able to negotiate safe passage to Greece?
I'm working on it...If I get a promise from Austria I'll let you know.
Welp, it appears that neither Austria nor Russia are speaking to me. This suggests they might be working together, in case that's useful information.
That is interesting! I'm still getting press from both, though nothing that suggests a solid alliance between the two. Nerves, uncertainties and some remarks heard - directly or indirectly - from Russia that make me wonder what his long game is here.
Last turn, Russia offered conflicting promises to me and Austria both (or so I've heard). Once I found that out, I never heard from either of them again. So it's not too many dots to connect to think they may have some kind of arrangement...
I would guess maybe they plan to split the map roughly horizontally and take me out first?
It could be so. It looks like they're not coordinating well if that's their plan, though. I was aligned with them last turn, but a few promises didn't quite flower to fruition and right now I'm more concerned with what France is doing in southern Spain.
Apparently Russia just makes empty promises to everyone (so I hear from northern players, anyway), so I think it's best if Russia is just ignored or treated with extreme suspicion. 

You mean you're worried about France seizing the Mediterranean?
That was what I meant yes, since I ended up leaving Tunis for the new year. Seeing the bounce on Munich allayed that concern nicely though, and I’ve exchanged a few notes with France since that convince me I’m able to look to my East for a little longer at least.
And yes, Russia does seem more than a little promise happy - does that make him a commitment phobe do you think, or is he counting on some of us to say no so he’s not stuck in contradictory commitments?
Probably the latter.

So, does focusing on the East mean that there's anything I might be able to help you with?
That’s a good question. 

Classicly I suppose I should be focusing on a Lepanto approach, and I’m certainly uncomfortable with your fleets in Con and Smy. It’s also the bill of goods Russia’s been trying to sell Austria and I. 

On the other hand that depends on us being able to trust what Russia is up to and frankly I’m not certain of him at all. I was committed to supporting A Ser into Bul this year in exchange for his support into Greece... but if we go back to the order log we can both see that didn’t happen.

What do you have in mind? My immediate objectives are taking Tunis, keeping my coastal waters Italian and finding a friendship/alliance I can trust to take me to the late game, hopefully a 2-way draw.
Ah, what a relief to finally hear what sounds like honesty!

Those fleets were mainly meant to defend against a lepanto, and, fate willing, maybe seize the black sea that I naively ceded when I was young and trusting. Point is, they're not a threat to you especially since you're the only neighbor of mine willing to talk to me. They might even be useful for you in a few turns, if I'm still around.

I assume you want do dedicate your Nap fleet to snagging Tunis. And does the "coastal waters" thing mean you're concerned about the Adriatic? If not, then, what I hoped was that you might be willing to support Bul-Ser while stabbing Albania from the sea. This could set us up to start pushing back on Austria from the South. (And I'd support *you* into Serbia if I thought that'd be worth anything, but given that Bul is surrounded by enemies I just doubt the support would go through).
I'd like that, and I agree it's a huge relief to cut through the nervous diplomatic double-speak! 

I think it's perfectly understandable for Turkey to want to defend against a Lepanto, especially when Italy is sounding cautious and doesn't really have many other options to expand. I've just built a second fleet, but then I think I need that to escape my boot whichever way I'm going. 

I am concerned about the Adriatic, but not sure I'm moving into it this year. I agree with your analysis of Bul (you're GOING to get hit) although it might be hard to bring up a new unit into Bul to replace your army there. Are you hoping to feed F Con to the east coast? You might need an Aegean fleet to force your way up, which should probably be yours unless  you're willing to extend me that much trust this early.

We're assuming a supported attack on Serbia will get you in, yes? Austria does have a *lot* of units around there, cut at Albania or no.

Bianca de' Medici
I agree with you that it's not likely to work given all the units Austria has around, but it's the best I could come up with. I was planning to move a fleet to the Aegean for support next season, as you suggest. 

Do you know anything about what Austria and Russia are planning?
(also I'm open to any counter offers if you have them)
Reliably? No.

Generally speaking I think they’re trying to defeat you, but how they’re planning on doing it I’m not clear. They both lied to me last turn - and, as far as I can tell, to each other. 

I don’t have a better offer really, except that if we make any progress against Austria I would expect Russia to start courting us instead.
That sounds on-brand for Russia. It’ll fall on deaf Turkish ears though.
So, can I count on your support?
Yes. Let’s do this thing, my friend.

B. de M
I'm getting nervous about Austria in Serbia and Albania, and I don't want to lose Greece. I'm also (sorry!) getting nervous about your two fleets facing west what with my more experienced friend telling me that Italy and Turkey "always fight". 

That's not true, is it?
I'm still not going to attack you, but... I think I can't attack Austria either here. Sorry. I need to sit tight and wait for Russia and France to commit themselves. Maybe France will butt out of the Med with his northern worries, but maybe he won't too and in Italy we *need* freedom of the seas.
I understand your hesitation to attack Austria, but if you don't trust them then it's better to resist sooner rather than later when they become more powerful at my expense. 
Your experienced friend is wrong; there's no reason Turkey and Italy *have* to fight, even if it does happen somewhat often. In this instance, you're the last person on the board I'd want to fight with.
Well, I'm glad we didn't agree to stab Austria, actually, since it looks like Austria has flipped on Russia. 
I'd still like to help you out any way I can, but it looks like you might be focusing on the west for a bit. Just know that as far as I can tell neither Austria nor I have intentions with Greece right now.
(Austria did start to talk to me again and said as much)
Thank you! I’m much happier with my suspicions drawn to a worthy target, and I’m glad we didn’t start fighting Austria in the Balkans while France ran up my back. Do you have a plan for getting back control of the Black Sea? You certainly don’t have to look out for me any more, we have a Frenchman to scold ^^
Don’t you worry about the black sea, this ol’ sultan has a few tricks up her sleeve 😉
I look forward to seeing what you do next, your fleets are certainly ready!
(Sending to Italy and Austria)

France, germany, and England’s behavior combined with some things England has said to me smell of a triple alliance between those three. Do you agree or have any additional evidence?
If so, I want to make sure southeast europe is prepared to push back against such a threat
A few things I’ve heard sound Triplish and the current French position certainly looks like they’ve made some sort of deal doesn’t it? They aren’t going to sneak by me though, so it really depends what EG do.
So I know this is last minute, but I just got Austria to support me from Ser into Rum. I was wondering if you'd be willing to bump/borrow Bul this turn? I highly doubt Austria would try and swipe it from you
I just don't want Russia to have it
Too last minute sorry, I was asleep. I’ll go see what happened in the update.
It looks like you'll be able to push back on France a bit this year. I think you and Austria should work together to move you into Piedmont...what do you think?
I was also wondering whether your Greece army might be willing to support Con-Bul ec?
Good morning my friendly Sultan! Still a bit asleep here, but agree with both your points. Happy to support you into Bul (ec) this season, and very much hoping Austria will support me in driving France back out of my immediate area. How have you been? Nearing the end of a *very* long week here and looking forward to spending more time looking over the map.
Well I'm so glad you'll be taking some time to get back to what's important. 

I've been not-so-busy and looking at the map kind of a lot...thanks for the support and I'll gently try to convince Austria in your favor as well
Hahahaha. Well, it’s Diplomacy and SO and not having to spend all day up to my ears in Campus things. But yes, important to focus on what’s important.

I appreciate your support!
I'd sure hate to be France right now! Great job claiming Mare Nostrum 🙂
Thanks! How are things in the east? Still have Russia well contained or do you need anything from Greece or the rest of me?

We’re at your service here, while not wanting to drive in where we aren’t needed
Don’t need anything just trying to give credit where it’s due
Congratulations on your build! How are things in the East with Russia dying from all sides? Do you have any immediate plans for where we go next from here?

I imagine France would be open to a deal that had me moving away... again.
Sorry I didn't respond to this...I hope that move to the Ionian is not signalling that you're ready to turn on me
I moved there so I could convoy Greece out, since he’s not doing any good there any more. Did you have another use for him?
Congrats on smooshing Russia so effectively!
Ah thank you but the smooshing was so effective that now England and Germany are swooping in like buzzards! 

And that's a relief about Greece. Does this mean no truce with France, and you'll keep expanding that way?
I haven't agreed a truce with France. If England and Germany were still attacking France, I'd absolutely be driving on hard (why I sent the fleet back for reinforcements) but now... I'm torn. If I keep hitting France, that frees England (and Germany I guess) to push through the last Russian centre and come after the three of us from the East, right?And pushes France back into their arms. How do I avoid that?
Ah the truth comes out. In hindsight I should have realized it was too good to be true
It was true at the time I said it was. But yes, negotiations went on.
It's important to me that you do understand the situation changed there. 

With both you and Austria advising the A Greece wasn't needed there my fleet came over for exactly the reason I suggested... but then after it arrived I had my French re-evaluation. And now Germany has jumped Austria and my ally seems to have lost his conviction about killing you, and so - why, I am re-evaluating again.
Well at this point the only thing I could offer you as an ally is help in taking dots from Austria. If that's something you'd be more interested in than taking dots from me, then we could work together?
On my way to bed. Let me look at this and come back to you in the morning. I think there is a definite chance, and if we do this I’ll be perfectly straight with you before we start (and likewise if I decide to keep fighting you).

This will only work if we surprise him though 😃
Sorry I ended up being basically offline all day (and I'm involved in a new tournament, so busy setting up those games). 

Yes, I'm more interested in taking dots from Austria at this point than I am in taking them from you. If we schedule a bounce in Smyrna in the Spring, could I count on your support into Bulgaria in the Fall?
Hmm long term I’d sooner have Rum and Bul for myself while you take the western holdings...could we either agree to some temporary arrangement or could I promise you support into Serbia instead?
That makes perfect sense to me. I was thinking in terms of what you could support me into, but if I can get that build this Fall I’m happy to leave it and let you take it for the following year - and Rum too. 

Black Sea territories are much easier for you to hold, and I need you strong if we’re going to drive north together.
Okay glad we’re on the same page :)

Have you heard anything from Austria/Germany that might affect how we should proceed? Austria claims to want to leave Ukraine open for me this season though I’m not sure whether to trust it
Austria is starting to get nerves about all my units heading this way, but I’m reminding him this was part of our plan to kill you. Currently I’m offering to help Austria defend against Germany where he’s badly out of position.
So am I assisting Greece into Bul this season?
I'm also wondering if you're going to follow through on your promised assist of Austria into Vienna. I think if we're going to stab, it's better for you not to and to fall back to venice instead.
That’s up to you, friend. Normally when I stab I prefer to stab hard, but if you’re having concerns and warning Austria about our plans then they weren’t likely to work anyway. 

How do you want to do this? Committed stab and pivot north or revert to our prior alliances and see if Austria is willing to commit to a direction - any direction - that I can support him to?

You know my preference, but I don’t want to push you into something you’re uncomfortable with.
I don’t *think* I’ve said anything to Austria to indicate our collaboration, although Austria is suspicious anyway. All I did this season was ask whether you two were collaborating, to which Austria said basically “I sure hope so but we’ll see”

 
I’m wholly comfortable with going forward with you on a decisive attack on Austria.
Okay I'm committed. Let's do this decisive attack on Austria, with your supporting me into Bulgaria from Greece this season and my getting out of the way for you to take Bulgaria yourself in the new year. We'll work out how we break Rum, but if the best solution is me moving into it then we'll work out a schedule for me to get out of it too - Black Sea coastal territories are yours.

Agreed?
Agreed. I’ve placed your support order.
It's been a long weekend. Getting back into the dip mindset, do you think you can trust England to keep off your north?

If so, let's look at getting you Rum and Bul this year.
I think that’s a good plan. Are you willing to leave Bul this fall?
Done! Taking Rumania in the Spring?
If possible, yes
I’d also love it if you could move your fleet out of the Aegean and into greece or something, just to take a little presssure off me?
That's fine. I'm using it to cover Greece this season.

Aegean DMZ?
Agreed 🙂
Austria has asked me to support them into Bul this season. Since you're giving it up to me anyway and it will be useful to us to have their trust, should I do it?
Oh dear I'm sorry it looks like to you didn't get my message. Let me know if there's some way I can make it up to you!
Ouch! Unfortunately you’re right, I wasn’t around for your first message at 1:10 am and so wasn’t in a position to suggest anything else. What does their trust buy us, other than forcing a disband of one of our units due to complete the defeat of our mutual enemy this turn?
I'm really sorry I forgot that you're not in a U.S. timezone. I didn't realize it would be such an issue because to me, it just made sense that you'd move into Serbia with Bulgaria and support from Albania (so that support couldn't be cut by Rum).
...and that trust gets us information. Like, for instance, I could have told you not to move with Albania if it weren't for our time difference issue. I really am sorry and I'll be more aware of it in the future
Ah no, I knew you were attacking Rumania this turn so I waited in Bulgaria to ensure he couldn’t simply retreat in there and offer you the same problem all over again in Fall. The move out was due in Fall (yes into Ser) so that you could reclaim your rightful Black Sea borders as scheduled 😃
Not sure I have the armies to do that now; I’ll look at the map when I’m more awake, but may need you to take a more proactive role if that’s okay.
I'm already on it! I'll get back to you in a couple hours
So, Con to Bul (ec)? I can support you there from Gre and if you support from Rum as well should get you back where you should be.
I'll do that but just so you know Austria told me they were going for greece this turn.
From where?
Bulgaria
Not a problem then - provided you hit Bul with Con supported from Rum
Okay great
That went more or less according to plan, thanks for your support!
I want you to know that despite my move to sc instead of ec, I plan to honor the DMZ of the aegean. I was just being overcautious in case you decided not to honor it.
Should we look into spring then? What are you trying to achieve this year?
I was just asking myself that. Expanding northwards against Germany/England seems logical for me.
What are your goals?
Since Austria is... a little more back in the game than I’d planned, they have to be my focus. After that I fully intend to stick with my alliance and drive to the final endgame. :3
Just not looking at those moves yet
Hi there, we should talk. I've communicated with Germany at this point and I've heard from England and keen to hear your strategic thoughts on the overall picture. Where can we draw a line of DMZs? Where (if anywhere) can we work together more proactively? It's reaching a bit, but if I ever have a spare fleet would it be useful as a loaner to your lineup in the north?
Hey hey.
To be honest, just got done with a day from hell, so not really thinking big picture at the moment yet.  Placeholder orders are more or less just a standard French opening, just starting to touch base with all the neighbors.
I read you France, and sorry to hear about the apocalypse on earth. Pretty standard Italian opening as well, I'm neither more nervous or less of my neighbours than usual. 

Once you get your press off, maybe lie down and listen to your favourite tunes? I know that helps me when I'm blue.
Oh, I'm not blue - just worn out.  It's been a hectic week :)
I think I'll stick close to a standard opening, get in position to drop a bunch of fleets
Sounds good! Off Brest please - seeing them appear in Marseilles will set off all sorts of alarms in La Bella Italia ^_^ I’m glad you’re “only” very tired. What is it you do, when you’re not governing the fates of a nation?

Engineering student here.
I design software systems for electronic health records.
What's your focus?  I was originally an electrical engineering student, myself.
Aerospace engineering :3 I finish my course at the end of next year and... then have to actually find work, if I can. I enjoy the university but don't want to spend my whole life in Academia, you know?
No, no you probably do not want to do that.  😃
Nothing too new this turn, good to see you're on good terms with your neighbours - or at least good enough to quickly grab your neutrals this year!
We should probably talk DMZs then, yeah? I don't have any intention of going into Piedmont any time soon, and really do either us want to see any naval adventures in the Gulf of Lyon, the Western Med or North Africa?
That's the plan - and, yes, it would be very nice to keep the western Med area free of fleets.
Anything I should be worried about there? England and Germany seem to be coordinating well, but at least they're leaving your borders well alone. Do we have DMZs in every territory I mentioned, or only the Western Med?
We do, and we should be good. I imagine there will be fallout to deal with from the attempt at Munich
Touching base, anything new from our friends to the West? And where is the Army in Marseilles headed? We Italians are known for our warm and personal hospitality, but prefer t
*to extend that on a more individual basis than to whole armies at a time.
Ouch! That hurt, though as you see we did spot you coming. Are you still intent on trying to force your way past my defense, or are you ready to talk? ^^
Always ready to talk!  Driving now though - be a couple hours before I can pull up the map
Now that I'm home, we could probably work out a set of moves that keeps me in position to move elsewhere next turn
"Keeps me in position" and "moving elsewhere" do feel a *little* contradictory I have to say. Still, if we can avoid butting heads pointlessly for the next three years I'm all ears! 

Where else did you have in mind? Your German and English borders seem a little bare, so I trust there are diplomatic ties keeping them safe and secure?
That's the theory. And you missed the time component -keeping me in place this turn, so I can move the other direction next turn (which is harder to do if I advance this turn)
You're not going to advance this turn. I appreciate the thought, but I'm already there and have nothing pulling me away in another direction. 

Or was that your point?
More or less - but we need to make SURE I don't advance.  I mean, you can't effectively cover all of North Africa, Western Med, Tuscany, and Tyrolia, hence the getting on the same page 🙂
And that's what I was talking about - keeping me in MAO would have made it easier to flip in the Spring
Ok, that works. Looks like some chaos between England and Germany we can maybe use to disentangle
I think England is being very clever, and is using Russia's ambitious early play to get an advantage while you and Germany are committed. But then he's the same player who warned me about an incoming Western Triple a few seasons ago, so... 

How would you like us to disengage? Planning on just turning around and going home, or something more dynamic?
Good question. Stand by while I get a feel for what's going on with the rest of the board. How secure are you feeling with the Austrian?
Reasonably secure. He's in Tyrolia because I asked him to come, if that's what you mean :3
It is, yes. And funny enough, my "full push on Italy" order set last turn would have had me ordered there, but I was trying not to push too hard. 
I think I'm inclined to mostly just straight up go away, just putting one unsupported move to tyrrhenian to keep you from full-pressing a follow-up.  Does that work for you?  That would let you either force your way in and still put one on Ionian, or force Ionian and just use one to keep tyrrhenian empty.
It does in principle, yes. It’s after midnight here and I’m heading to bed, but I’ll have a closer look at the map tomorrow (today now!) and give you a fuller response then. Maybe we can plot out some actual moves then. Where was the one unsupported move coming from, so I can run a sandbox tomorrow over coffee?
That would be Lyons. I was going to stay something cheeky, but it's actually pretty obvious which one I'd want to back up, and which is want to hold as a delay.
Ugh, autocorrect making it look like I've had a stroke...
So, not *quite* what you said you were going to do. 

I didn't mind disposing of the offending unit in Piedmont though, so you won't have to have him courtmartialed! I half expected a convoy into North Africa, though I now see you have larger threats to worry about to your north. Russia coordinating with a powerful England, and England and Germany descending on your open borders!
Eh?  I did exactly what I said I was doing :)
But, yes, you can clearly see that not only was I already backing away from you, I'm now *highly motivated* to fully commit to that.
The attack on Tyrolia wasn't *precisely* the same thing of "I'm pulling back" as I expected, but I'll give you the benefit of the doubt I guess. I'm not really sure what you were trying to do there honestly, unless you were hoping to menace Munich from the south?
*sigh*
Alright then. Spain won't be supporting Marseille so you don't need to cut it -you'd just be helping England by doing so, and screw him. So if you want, you definitely have the option of shifting wmed - naf,tys - WMed.
That would let you take Marseille and be in position to still take Spain in the fall, and/or contest the mid-Atlantic.
Agggh, I must have been half asleep. I didn't hit the thumb (or that was when the bot was down)
Let me look at this and work out what we're doing.
I was indeed hoping to menace Munich. 
For this turn, I'm also willing to support WMed - mao
I'm generally in favour of that idea. Where is MAO going?
I am generally in favour of plan "screw him". I have a few reasons, and in hindsight I can see the strings tied to my shoulders from a few seasons back. Would I be fair in assuming he set you to fighting me at about the same time he warned me you were coming?
So confirming you'd like me to move F WMed - MAO in Spring, and will support me there (from Spain?) if I don't cut you that season? If I can get Marseilles, Spain and ultimately Portugal I would be overjoyed... though I confess I don't completely understand why you're helping me do this. 

I think I need to understand?
Yes, he's been pulling some strings. As to why,  with three on my doorstep, I'm going to lose dots. All things being equal, I'd rather they go to the person that didn't betray me.  As for mao, it's going to English. That may cut a support and you'll just bounce mao open. It may also walk in behind a moving English fleet and get you into mao. Hard to say. But either is better for you than letting an English fleet in. 😀
I agree, and well reasoned. I’ll keep your secrets (although he does have a knack for reading the board), and plan closely with you for next year’s moves.
Support's in the box - do with that what ye will.
Thank you! I’ll see to it that it’s not wasted.
So... we're changing back again then? 

I don't object to someone defending themselves, but you could have said something 😂 I haven't lied to you yet and don't intend on starting now.
Sonafabitch - did I forget to hit thumbs-up on the last message?  Yeah, I did NOT mean for that to be a surprise to you, and I'm deeply sorry, cause you did me a solid and it looks like I reacted by being a dick.
So the Triple is back on? I see England has decided he can afford to kill Russia now, though he hasn’t asked me to distract Turkey recently.
Nope. He's killed the triple idea for me. So... What pull would make you happy?
What is a "pull"? I'm sorry, getting asked a lot about terms I don't recognise in this game.
Oh! You mean "pull off the board"?
I don't see any reason you'd be inclined to make me *too* happy if I was still trying to kill you, but since I'm apparently the only one doing that last turn I don't feel any particular obligation to stick with that plan either. 

If you remove an army, I'd be happy to see that as a sign of good will!

I do want to keep my build, but get that you wouldn't want to lose a home centre long term - right? 

Simplest answer if I go back east is to sit an army in Marseilles while everyone else leaves and lets you focus north. 

Next simplest is... A Mar moving to Spain I guess and letting you reclaim Mar uncontested?

Or we could do something more aggressive, but without me in your backyard I'm sure you could make some progress against England, if that's who you're looking at?
You sum it up well. Army gascony is probably the overall friendliest yet most ambiguous pull. It takes pressure off Marseille, but would let me keep pressing England if you backed off. And I'm happy to leave Marseille Italian for a while if the issue is off me - don't especially need that as a build spot in the near term
We should talk about how we’re going to disengage, so there’s no confusion and no temptation to warn anyone what we’ve got planned for them ^^
I’m trusting your fleets are headed north, and I’m sending everything other than A Mar and F GOL (this turn) east. I hope to send F GOL East next season as well
We're really on incompatible time schedules :)
Fleets are headed north, so is Burgundy.
You may want to cover Spain.
Cover or try to take it?
Same thing, mate. It's all yours as far as I'm concerned. 😀
Alright, will do my best!
Hey Austria! How are things in the east?
Things are good down here, we should watch each others backs being from the same stock and all. We have to be careful being in the middle of someone else's conflict.
Yes yes, i agree
I think any conflict between us will only result in one of us losing followed quickly by the other losing.  So should we have some sort of non-aggression pact?
Yes, that would be bad for both of us
how are you feeling about Italy?
Seems to be working with me on getting some Intel. I'm curious about your feelings on russia?
Have you heard anything from Turkey?
It seems like russia is aiming for him
Yeah it would seem that way, but Turkey told me that Russia was not conspiring against him.
interested in taking out russia?
Always
Do you have any plans for the fall? I am up for continuing our non-aggression pact this season. Hopefully we can work together to take out Russia in central europe
Not yet, talking to people to see if they may want to make moves on russia.
Are you cool with me moving into Boh? I'm still agreeable to a non-aggression pact, just would like to be more useful against russia
Sure that sounds reasonable
moving to Tyr to help italy, would appreciate you not taking my open vienna
Yep, can do that. Have you talked to france about Tyr? Not sure his exact plans but you two should be able to take on Italy if you coordinate
I'm trying to help italy, at least until russia is gone. I figure we have to take out one of the countries on the outside before worrying about other countries in the central
Ok sounds good
are you working with france to take out england, or just in a non-aggression against them?
Non aggression
cool cool cool
Can you tell what’s going on with turkey?
they're suspicious of an alliance between you england and france, which seems at least part true. If they're ready I'm going to try to push into russia with them. Italy is watching my back, and I have a non-aggression with you so I'm going to leave myself pretty vulnerable.
Ok, my main focus right now is Russia too. If you, me, and turkey can coordinate against Russia we should be able to get him off our backs quickly
I'm going to suggest me supporting turkey into Rum and the my moving my army in Bud to Gal to pressure War.
Sounds good to me
Want to move your army into Boh to help me in case russia gets feisty? Trying to make moves to take them out.
What are your plans with your army in Tyr?
Helping Italy with Piedmont. You're probably fine leaving your army where it is actually. Would you help me if Russia tries to move into my territory though?
Ok cool. Yeah, if we are able to ward off Russia successfully, we can figure out a plan to split his supply centers fairly between us
are you moving against england?
Trying to
cool, I moved my unit into Vie so I can't build one this winter. Im hoping to push at Russia either Gal or War. Just wanted to let you know when I start moving.
After Russia is taken out are you planning on going after England?
And if so do you want to let me take war and Ill help you take Stp and make moves into Swe
The problem is that after Russia is out, all of us in the west will have to start worrying about turkey
Have you been able to make any plans with turkey against Russia?
Going to support their push into Ukr
if you support me into War Ill help you take Stp and can help later deal with england.
Would you be open to supporting me into War and then I'll support you into moscow/down into turkey?
I could be. What are your plans with England once Russia is gone? It seems it would be more beneficial to have Stp and take over scandanavia. But obviously we would both want War given its location to us.
Just wanted to know what you see your self doing in the next couple turns.
I’m trying to work with England as long as possible...I’m hesitant to make  promises or plans based on StP because I’m using it at a bargaining chip for the long game
I’m hoping to get France or Italy out next
And use England to do so
Are you still focused east or do you plan on moving into Italy?
So be it, I'll support you into War.  I'd prefer getting rid of France since Italy has worked really well with me. I'd suggest knocking out France then going after England.
Well Italy is watching my back against Turkey so I don't really want to fight them. so more focused on the East.
Ok thanks! I owe you
That makes sense. Yeah Italy has been helpful against France so far, hopefully us in the middle can keep working well together
I think in the end its either going to be all three of us central countries left. Or whichever betrays the other two survives the longest before being taken out.
Agree
If think you can handle England on the west you could probably book from Bal into Sweden and then they're cut off from the East. It would make it easier to clean up the eastern stragglers after.
Yes that’s very tempting.
I’m still waiting to hear back from England before making any aggressive moves. At this point I need France to be weaker before having England completely after me, I don’t think I could manage both of them haha
forgot you still have some border with england
Yes, unfortunately
Thank you for following through with support!
Russia is basically done. I think we need to start being concerned with Turkey and try to prevent him from creeping into russia's supply centers
Of course
I agree, but i think we need to worry about England as well. I think the easiest way to split it would be for me to take Mos and you Stp. Italy and I surround Turkey and then you contain England until France is gone then England is the focus.
i can move Gal into Ukr and Bud into Gal to gather forces to oppose Turkey.
What does England think about you taking Swe? Was that planned or are you taking them on now?
Yes Swe was planned
okay
I have gotten england to agree to stop traveling south of StP in Russia. Who knows how long that will actually last, but I think it's safe to assume he won't be interfering in russia too much for another season or two
Basically it seems like England is waiting for you and Italy to put a decent dent into Turkey before making any huge moves east, so you/we have time to nibble out turkey and build up in the meantime
Well if we start making moves on Turkey would you be comfortable moving your army up to take Stp? It would certainly be a whole lot less stress having England not trying to mess with the East.
It seems like Russia is going to support either England or Turkey into Moscow this season to leave the game with whoever his preference is at that supply center (just won't be me haha).  Would you feel ok moving an army to Uk r to support me into Moscow? Then I can support you into Sev or let you have Warsaw. And between Moscow and an army I'm moving up north this season, I can keep England at bay
Yes I can work with that
(sorry if it seems like some messages sent out of order, i realized I'd forgotten some bot thumbs)
Just finally talked to Turkey haha. I think they are moving into Ukr this turn so maybe you should at least block them from moving inland that way
Can you support me into Moscow like we talked about before? Then I can keep England out of our hair/finish off Russia
You've got my support into Moscow
Awesome, thank you!
That's funny you didn't happen to mention your aggression into Vie in your previous messages
I’m very sorry, I didn’t want to 😦 

England has been threatening me and it was the only option I had to stay even with him without inciting his wrath
england just asked me if Vie was staged. So either you're lying or they're trying to foment anger
He is very good at mind games. I know there’s no way to prove it, but I’m not lying/haven’t lied to you
thats all well and good, but how does it stop your aggression towards me? I need some sort of recompense or I won't be able to trust you.
I understand. What do you propose?
you leaving my territory
Turkey is upset with my betrayal so now I have everyone to contend with
have you been conspiring with italy against me, because they're moving all their units west.
No, I haven't been conspiring with Italy. My understanding was that Italy was prepared to support you into Turkey
If you really do want to have this central alliance, then I think it should be fair for me to have my territory back. You dont have to just give it back, I can have my units take it  back in force so it looks like we are fighting. Although I do think you should start to deal with England considering how large they  are becoming.
The problem now is that if you use units to regain Vie, you'll just create an aisle for Turkey to waltz into central Europe. Do you have any plans in place to stop him? Seems like you two had some sort of non-aggression agreement last season
Well I was exactly thrilled with the possibility of a western threat so I let them take Ukr to keep them from being too aggressive.
Wasn't*
also England is about to move up to 8 units, if you move up right after Russia's last army disbands then you can easily take Swe and Stp. Then Italy and I will be able to deal with turkey.
Ah makes sense. Yeah England is growing quickly. I’m trying to figure out the best way to settle things with France and England on my western border first, and then figure out the best way forward from there. I think England and Turkey will be tied up with each other to our East for a season or two which buys us some time
So are you fine with me attacking Vie to keep up appearances?
I mean no, not happy about it haha. But seems like my only option at the moment
I wasn't happy about you taking it to begin with, but at least I'm telling you now.,
Haha fair enough
you both betrayed me first, but don't think you'll last much longer when all is said and done.
Betrayer Queen, would you like to assist me with hurting Italy in exchange for my territory? They betrayed me harder so I want them to suffer the most.
Yes I’m open to us discussing an agreement. What do you propose?
I lose, but Italy loses territory in the process
I want to see the streets run red with their Ragu
Their color is green, so it would actually be Pesto
I want to see the streets run with a liquid they're known for
are you in?
Yes
not that it will change my current state of survival, but you're not going to betray me as well right?
I mean again
I don’t want to be too outright in an attack against Italy because I will likely need their support in France soon, and I need to keep developing a good relationship with Turkey before Italy retaliates against me
But yes. I’m in
Did you have any specific ideas for this season? I think I’ll need Boh to support Munich, and I’m concerned about losing War
destruction of the traitor Italy?
I promise you that if you move Boh to Tyr I can follow up next season with a push into Ven.
I can’t move Boh this season bc I need it to defend Munich against France
Move Boh to Tyr, I'm going to try to take Tri, then I can support you into Italy. My back is completely open so you don't have to worry about me stabbing you.
Also pretty sure turkey is chumped out and is going to let Italy try to roll over me, which is obviously super cool for me. Just a heads up for when I'm gone.
Like I said, I can’t move Boh this season because I can’t afford to leave Munich undefended (and I need to move Kie back into holland). Going to try to move my northern units south I guess
okay, will you at least lie for me and say something about how I'm going for Tyr or something so that I can try to push back on Italy a bit?
Sure thing
What are you planning on doing with your Vie unit this season?
Move for Tri. I'd like for you to move into Tyr so we can push into Italy then you can take Vie after.
Or possibly take back Bud. If you could find it in your heart to not stab me again for a season or two.
Problem is that if I don’t get another build this winter idk if I can keep pace with Italy next year 😦
Well, if things go accordingly then Italy should be losing two builds this season.
Any reason why you're not just taking Nwy?
England and I are balanced and staying out of each other’s way. He’s respected my home territories thus far bc I haven’t gone after him. Norway will be an easy grab for me when the time comes, no need to rock that boat quite yet
Well I guess we've seen that strategy certainly works.
Don’t want him convincing France to take me on
I'm going to try to convince France to move against Italy. You should to.
What's your plan this round?
Mostly defense, trying to move farther into Central Europe
So towards me?
Gal. It’ll give me more options for next round (maybe take Bud back from Italy? Or Rum)
Okay that was just a very vague statement. Had me a bit confused. Maybe move Boh-> Tyr then I can either support you into Tri or vice versa?
Then you can move down after italy is out?
Also you should really convince France to help out against Italy while they can still take advantage of it. Otherwise Italy is going to walk into France and get a bunch more production.
I can’t move into Tyr this season, I need that unit to support Mun
Didn't France just attack England right there?
Yeah but France was working with England just one season before and he won’t talk to me
From the looks of last season it would seem they had a Italy betrayal moment.
Who knows
This game is rife with backstabbring, if only we could have all been friends.
"I'm obviously fairly heavily committed to my attack on you at the moment, but I do consider Turkey's shenanigans around Bulgaria a breach so before I forgive and forget I thought I'd offer you a chance to negotiate. "
Are you going to?
Backstabbr you? No, I've told you, Italy, and Turkey my objective. The complete destruction of Italy.
At least Italy is warned haha
I'm more a Frontstabbr type of person.
You should buy up that domain name
You should really start attacking Italy. You're just going to get surrounded if you don't start doing something now.
Not trying to tell you how to play, but if you dont move into Boh soon you're going to lose the opportunity and Italy is going to take control.
Would you mind supporting me into Bud this next season so I can  make another unit to push at Italy?
So, I'm proposing a northern triple. You, me, and England roll down the rest of the board, and then call a three-way draw. It's a good route, because it's a pretty stealthy alliance early on. It looks like an EG taking on France, and Russia just acting normally. How does that sound to you?
Hey! That sounds like a good route, I'm up for it
Have you talked to England about it yet?
England's on board, as far as I can tell
Awesome, I talked to them about being on board too
What are you thinking for your initial moves?
So, you decided to opt for a Western triple instead of a Northern? I admit, I take some fault here because I let my day-to-day business get in the way of keeping up with messaging here, but you do know that western triples NEVER go well for Germany, right? If you stick with it, you're gonna be surrounded by a greedy England who will be able to grind you into dust.
Hi Kaiser, greetings from her majesty the queen.
I've been ordered to deliver this message to you in hopes of establishing an alliance. 
I wanted first to try a western triple with france, and wrote to him accordingly. However russia has proposed a northern triple. Seeing as you are my first choice in alliance I'm good with which ever you would like to try. Hope to hear from you soon
Hi Queen, greetings from Germany (the Kaserin, actually 😉 )
You're my first choice for an alliance as well. I was leaning towards the northern triple with russia. Have you tried or seen that before?
I haven't tried it or seen it
Wait is Kaserin female for kaiser? Lol
Hahah yeah
Ah well nice to know hehe. I hope I can give you a satisfactory experience ;) lol
It will be refreshing to flirt with a female instead of men lmao
https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=VBmMU_iwe6U
Long as you let me be the king that runs it with you baby!
We will be the best King and Queen ever!
So northern triple then?
Plans actually: King & queen and northern triple
That’s the plan!
A very romantic plan!! I love it and am totally in
Hello my Queen, would you possibly have any info on france for me?
King! No not yet
What are you thinking for your first moves?
France just told me they were on board with western triple
I want to secure nwy for sure, and am hoping that I could get bel?
If france is on board with the western tripple he may be on with me having bel. And then after that you my queen and I would have to decide which tripple we want to stay with
Ok so france is cool with me having bel
If you have no objections I will take bel in fall
Yes, sounds good to me
I am planning to move to Den and Ruh. Does that sound ok to you?
Absolutely my beautiful queen
As for France, not much of a talker so hard to judge honestly
Yeah I can't super tell. They just said they were opening south, which they did
What are you thinking for fall orders?
russia seems sketchy, not sure if they are committed to the triple
See I've got the same inkling about russia being two-faced with us
Yeah, hopefully russia will focus on taking out austria and turkey. But who knows
So apparently russia has offered alliance to basically every nation lol
I am more than ever by your side my queen
France is more promising for triple alliance
I will convoy my army to nwy if you bounce russia in Swe and we will be well on our way to eliminating him. 
Nobody likes an alliance whore right
I agree, don't think we can trust russia and it seems like everyone else realizes that too at this point
Yes, those moves sound good to me!
What do you think we should do re: France? he proposed bouncing over Munich
I think that's a clever idea
Keeps the other nations in the dark about our tripple alliance with him
Especially for italy
Sounds good. I'll let him know
Beautiful moves my Queen!! I'm in love 😍
I propose we demilitarize any and all neighboring territories between france, you and me. I will relay this same message to France and if you're agreed to it relay it to france as well and we have him relay it back to us. I wish we could have a 3-way chat with him.
I propose we demilitarize any and all neighboring territories between france, you and me. I will relay this same message to France and if you're agreed to it relay it to france as well and we have him relay it back to us. I wish we could have a 3-way chat with him.
The demilitarization would basically consist of pic, bur, bel, hol and ruh. Oh and nth for me as well seeing as it is adjacent hol.
That being said I suggest we wait till fall  to act on it so as to keep our triple alliance under wraps for as long as possible. But I do like to operate on complete trust in order to more efficiently and effectively use our units in our respective theatres
I anticipate very much to hear your response :) 
I'm gonna finish building this little building and get me some much needed sleep and dream about your reply hehe.
Yes, that works for me. I'll relay to France and get back to you. Let me know what you hear back from France
Ok france got back with me.  Said he's good with it too
Yes, he said the same to me. I think we should work towards taking out Russia in scandinavia
I agree my queen. Sorry I've been very limited on time. How would you like to play it up in scandi?
This fall I could support you into Sweden while you cut bot support and I take stp
Then we'll be set to crush him in the mainland. I have my orders set for very strong positional gain to be ready for the fall. If you bounce swe again and move into bal we'll bet set for fall. Also ber is going to nth. I don't think I can get online again before resolution so cheers my queen. We'll catch up later
Sounds good to me! we will reconvene for fall
Hey Kaiserin I figured you would honor our DMZ treaty this year. What happened?
I am sorry! I took it to mean no action in those places and I thought I was already there when we agreed on the zones.  Please know it was only a misunderstanding 😃 I still have your back
Did Russia confront you about the western triple? He’s on to us
Yes he did lol.
Also how do you not know what demilitarization of an area means? Lol
You fairly new at the game or from another planet hehe?
See now you put me in a pickle :/ that's why I confirmed with you that I was moving out of bel. I was expecting hol and ruh to be vacated as well.
Although you've given me no reason beyond that for distrust so I'm staying with you and trusting you my queen.  
On another note Russia is kinda desperate and asking me to head towards France lol. Even offered me support into Sweden
Are you there kaiserin?
Gah sorry, it really was just an honest brain lapse, I was entering moves last minute while occupied in real life. Thank you for giving me another chance to prove my support!!
Oh good you're online! :)
Yes, Russia seems desperate. I think he got everyone against him from the very beginning. Italy is definitely working to find an alliance against France
Has he made you any offers on Sweden?
No specific offers yet, but they are definitely trying to scheme something.
I suppose it will be more Mediterranean based
Oh, no I was referring to russia
Like has he made you an offer on sweden?
Ohhh sorry. Was confused why Italy would be taking about swe haha. No russia didn’t offer anything
He just snarked about me ignoring him and his alliance, even though he was silent and uncooperative before
Ok good. Well could you attack his fleet to cut support so I can get into stp?
Yes
Awesome! Thank you my queen. Also we need to discuss how we're going to split Russia. Turkey will want a piece of him too
If I may ask, where are you from? Seems so hard to coordinate good time to talk
Sorry I left abruptly earlier- had to run out for some appointments. Can’t diplomacy and drive 😉
I’m on the east coast
PA?
Yes, I agree about figuring a plan to split up Russia. Austria is aiming for Russia too, so we can probably use him along the way
Currently literally caught in the rain lol. I’m all ears for what you have in mind re:Russia. I’ll follow up later tonight when I’m back home!
Well I know this gonna sound a bit greedy right away but hear me out. If I get stp and you let me have Sweden you could have the rest of Russia and I believe that to be better because it keeps us with more clear defined borders.
I like to operate on 100% trust and I feel like we got off to a slightly rocky start with the misunderstanding of the DMZ
But I'm open to your opinions and suggestions to my queen. This is a joint effort
Also to make sure we ARE on the same page this time, hol and ruh will be vacated this turn right? France and myself already kept our end of the deal. I need your confirmation on this so I can vacate nth as well instead of having to cover bel
Yes, I will vacate hol and ruh. I understand how that made me appear to be flaky, but I can assure you that I'm devoted to this King/Queenship. It will be corrected this season
As for Russia, I think I can agree with your proposal, but first I'd like to understand a little more how to see France working in all of this. France was originally on board with this alliance, but has been less vocal, so its hard for me to gauge his commitment level
Right and based on the uncertainty we will have to act accordingly with him when the time comes
And thank you for confirming
As for right  now he keeps Italy busy for us from which we both benefit
Oh hey you never got back with me whether you agree to the proposal on Sweden, stp for me and the rest of Russia for you?
Sorry for the delay! Yes I can agree to that
No worries my dear. And thank you :)
I think after this turn we need to start making wedding plans lol
We could invite all the nations to attend and bear witness to the consummation of our commitment hahaha
You moved into Hol- Are you no longer in favor of a DMZ? France and I upheld our end of the bargain this time around.
Yes you did in fact. Paranoia got the best of me :/ with everybody getting getting so very suspicious about a western triple :(
Where do we go from here?
You're  willing to salvage this?
Potentially,  but I’m worried that you and France are trying to push me out of this triple
Your silence is troubling
I totally understand, my apologies I was busy working to put up the last wall on this cabin before  most of the guys here left
Hmm I put myself in a tough spot.
So how would you propose we move forward?
Hmmm
What do you think if you let me take Swe this round and then I promise to allow you a clear path/support to take StP as we discussed before. That will throw everyone off the western triple suspicions, and we can move forward together. What do you say?
Hmm to much back tracking imo
What do you think would be a better option?
I'm super busy with work right now. Throw me another proposal.
You can focus on moving towards StP and I’ll move towards Warsaw
Im up for other suggestions too if anything comes to mind. Hope work finishes up well!
Thank you, yes it came together nicely :)
Ugh I'm truly at a loss as to what to do :/  I get along with you so very well with yet if I attack russia then Turkey will be real  hard to stop will be a long term problem.
The other thing is I have only stp to gain from a war with russia.
Also france seeing my moves was real quick to jump on the opportunity he sees for himself and wants Munich
I think really the only option I have other than continuing an invasion on you would be to attack france
Ah I see your point(s)
Hmmm
IF you are in fact willing to salvage this "thing" we have hehe, invading france is the only option I see.  Russia poses no threat now and if france gets attacked then Italy is   free to put the brakes on Turkey for us
Also what on earth is Austria doing?  That's the other thing looks like Turkey has Austria in his pocket
Well obviously I’d say to attack France haha.  But more than that, I think that we work well together and can continue to do so. I am on board for a salvage! I haven’t communicated as much with France, and he seems to be doing his own thing heading into Italy anyways. I think that Austria is trying to support Italy into France? I think he wanted to work with Turkey against Russia, but I’m not sure if that’s what’s actually transpiring
(Sorry if you got that multiple times due to me trying to send while bot went down)
I get that we work really well together. But honestly what good is that if it's to our detriment?
Im saying the 3 of us
I do know for certain that france is moving to bur.
I discouraged  the move but he was very set on it. Said that he doesn't need mar unit against italy anyway
Hmmm good to know. I believe that Austria is supporting Ven into Pie, but nothing we can do about that at the moment
Italy did say that they can get austria to cooperate  agaisnt austria so there's  that
Maybe let's you and me tell italy that we are ready to help them out if they can swing austria towards turkey?
Yes that sounds good
Okidoki
And to ease your heart a bit more this sesson I'll  let you in on a lil secret ;) I'm moving towards france and away from you. I really do want us to work, paranoia just got the best of me last season and I know that's not a good thing for a good relationship. I will reward in kind
Why thank you 🙂 I do appreciate it
Ok, I've told Italy
Great!!  And one final thing

THANK YOU THANK YOU  for being such a strong  queen. That is a thing of beauty and worth
Ok well I'm off  to finish the roof. Have a good night ttyl
Is this my own fault?
What are you referring to?
France's  moves
Hey are you available to chat real quick?
I won't have time tomorrow
If you don't have time rn. Could we at least bounce in holland?
Sorry for delay, I am traveling this weekend, haven’t had much time online
My main priority now is getting another supply center before winter
Have you cut some deal with Russia already for a sc?
I admit i made a hige blunder in an attempt to put the brakes on tirkwy. You can have holland back
Ok, thank you!
No I don’t have any deals yet
Also I  had a question.  Did you and france communicate  about bouncing  in bur?
We did a few seasons back, but decided against it. I was working on a hunch.
Hmmm. Wonder who warned france
Im trying to hard
Take holland for real and I'm  gonna slow down and coast along for the ride
If turkey gets out of his corner so be it
Haha ok sounds good! I haven’t heard from anyone else over the weekend, don’t think much scheming has been going on
So france just decides all on his own to 
Swing up for an attack on me? A bit odd i think
Honestly we only had talked about what he was doing with Italy and Austria
I see
Hello my queen how was your weekend?
Hey! It was busy but good. How about yourself?
Also- thank you for letting me have Hol back! 😃 I really appreciate it
Very worky hehe
You're very welcome!! I think that's the least I could do after taking it out of stupid paranoia lol
Haha no need to worry
I think that was the last labor pain for the birth of our glorious alliance! ;)
But I'm glad you had a good weekend :)
How you want to move forward now?
Cheers to that!
I want to walk with you side by side
Hmmm i haven’t thought about my next moves yet. I can’t tell who France is trying to work against. Seems like Austria wants to cooperate to get Russia knocked out, so I’ll probably work with him in Central Europe a bit
Ok sure :). In the meantime I can deal with France's uncertainty together with Italy
What are you thinking?
Turkey is doing his thing!!!
Oh cool, sounds good!
Yeah I was hoping Italy could help out with France more, seemed like they were still concerned with turkey though, last time we talked
Hmm board wise they look very concerned about France and not so much Turkey. They even supported Turkey to a sc
That tripped me out when I saw it
Oh you’re right. I guess I’ll touch base with Italy again about it
Yea that'd be good. From my perspective Italy is way way to committed west.
Yeah.  I will keep you posted!
Very much appreciated
Sounds like Italy is trying to capture Marseilles. I am considering trying to  bounce there with France again in order to make that happen, not sure yet
Whether you bounce or not marseilles will fall because Italy can cut Spain support with wes
Might be better if you could support bel>bur
Yeah good point
The potential problem I see with me supporting bel>bur is that Italy has voiced concern about you, and if they see me too obviously on your side it might be hard for me to cooperate with Italy
Lol I felt that coming. With the way they were so totally committed west
In that case we should probably leave France alone to defend against Italy
Yeah, I think that’s best this season at least. I think we’ll need Italy’s cooperation against turkey/Austria and don’t want them to turn on us too soon
Ok sounds good.
So since we're not doing anything in france, what you say we start pushing our armies east? We could hold bel and hol for this turn then in the fall bel>ruh to get ready for a jog through mun in spring and into boh or sil in the following fall
Also fyi I will need nth to be able to convoy pic unit to nwy.
Yeah let’s focus east. I’m not exactly sure what Austria is going to do, so let’s take this season to see and go from there
Cool, thanks for the heads up!
Question.  Are you into what Italy is doingm
?
Idk, seems like they are only going after France right now, which is just pushing France up against us
I haven’t coordinated with Italy much, just trying to keep communication open. I think Italy is open to cooperate with us against France (obviously) and is trying to keep Austria focused on Russia/turkey
I'm super busy with work right. I'll get with you soon as I can
Ok no worries!
Hey just give me a moveset to enter.  I don't have time to do any discussing :/
We do need to push east for sure.  As much as possible
Ok nvm. Already put my orders in. I'm holding bel unless you want me to go to ruh to get that unit through mun in spring to help in the east to lock it down before Turkey does
gah sorry I missed this earlier! Hope life gets less hectic
Holding bel sounds good to me
Would you be ok with me taking Swe so i can get another build this winter? Just thinking we will need more armies against the east. I'm amenable to another flip flop in the future 🙂
Ok will do. I'm very sorry I haven't had much time for you
Yea I'm good with that. It is paramount to get armies east
I'm working on getting some in from the north
Awesome, thanks!
Anything for you my queen. Even up to half of my kingdom  ;) hehe
Likewise for you sir!
Do you know where I got that quote from? Lol
No... haha sorry. I am guessing it's from a movie?
Yep :) the movie of queen Esther
I may just call you my "Queen Esther" lol
Unless you're name is prettier than that?
I am "Sir [redacted] the First" ;)
Esther is a regal name, I like that
I haven't heard of that move though haha
Queen Esther it is ;)
Perfect 😃
Hey! Hope work is less busy today! Let me know what you're thinking this season. I'm going to push armies east
Well still going hard but I can take a min for you Ms. Queen Esther  :)
ok 🙂 nothing very urgent
Basically my plan is just push east with you
Just wondering what you think we should do about France in the next few seasons
Idk, what do you suggest?
He's pretty tied up with Italy and Italy is tied up with him
We could take him out or let him keep Italy in check but then again we could use Italy's help against Turkey
Yeah I'm not sure if it's better to cooperate with Italy and take out france, or just let the two of them fight it out a little longer.  I just wanted to check if you'd make any agreements recently to France
I haven't talked to him in a season or two
Just that I would ceasefire on our borders so he could focus on Italy
Nothing beyond that
I'm inclined to just cooperate with Italy and take him out. That would be one less loose end. If we do that then we would have Italy's and Austria's help to eliminate Turkey
Also in about one more year it will be time to start insinuating to Italy and Austria  that we will betray each other after turkey is gone
Ok, good to know
Yes, I like both of those plans
I think it'll be fairly easy to take france out at this point, and Italy seems cooperative and its likely we could each get a supply center if we help
Would you support me into Moscow? And let me know if you need my support in Bur or anywhere
(and thanks again for Swe last winter, hopefully we can put some of these new armies to good use)
Frankly I was expecting to get Moscow since I gave you Sweden
I wouldn't mind sharing France with you though
Besides I have 2 armies that I need to put to use in the east. I could get the far eastern fringe of Russia and you would be getting most of Austria.
Ooo I don't want to count the chicks before they hatch but imaging an English turkey?!!! Austria for you Turkey for me and we share the Balkans or something along those lines
About support to bur, let me see first if France will reply and accept my offer to help him regain marseilles
Ok that seems fair. I know we had talked about you just having StP when we originally discussed Russia. The only problem is that Austria is really worried about you at the moment and doesn't want to cooperate or make moves against Turkey when he sees you rolling down russia.
Italy is spooking everybody about me :/
So what does Austria want me to do then? Stab you instead of going south to help against Turkey?
And yes I hear you about our original discussion although we can both testify that a lot has happened since then lol. Always hard to project a concrete future you know
I think Austria just wants everyone else to stay put except him haha
Let me ask you my Queen Esther, are you uncomfortable with me having units all around you?
I could understand such a feeling which is why I'm trying to keep as far away from your borders as possible while simultaneously keeping up with your growth.
"Half of the Kingdom" seems to be coming to fruition sooner than expected hahaha
Hah yes, I understand too. I suppose I'm feeling a bit undecided on how to deal with Austria at the moment.
Tell you what. You take Moscow then and  I'll stay in the background like a lion ready to pounce at the right time. You get your leverage on Austria with that and in return you help me get Paris and bre.
I'm moving into Pru to insinuate to Austria that I'll be trying to move into StP, and hopefully that will be enough to keep him off my back another season or two
Oops we sent messages at the same time haha
Or I go to moscow this spring and you ask him to move to ukr to support you into Moscow in the fall.
The move to pru works with both plans
Hmm both good ideas. Though it seems unlikely that you wouldn't bounce in Moscow without my support, and if I support you, then the whole rue with Austria is up
*ruse
I must admit, I've been in bed with russia too 😬 hehe. He told me himself he would help me get Moscow to keep Turkey from getting it
Russia was just a "concubine" tho lol
BETTER BE haha
Ok then, let's go with your second plan
My dear Esther! I put it on my Kingdom that concubine is all it was lol
All right second plan it is then
Well Turkey is very VERY adamant about Moscow being rightfully his
He just tried to get my support into Moscow too, which I declined
Good
Thank you
What did he say to that?
I think he’ll move into Ukr instead. So hopefully turkey and Austria will at least bounce there?
Sweet. Did you tell him that you want Moscow?
No. He guessed that you and I had plans to split up Russia, but i evaded that part of the convo haha
That's my queen!!!
Did you intend to hold everywhere?
Ah that sux!!! :/ I was in a business meeting!
I absolutely did not intend to do that!!!
And france moving on me?!?!? He explicitly said he was not moving against me this season
😦
Mind if I get either Moscow or Sweden? I pretty much need a build in lvp to fight France back
?
Hey! Sorry for the delay, was kind of checked out for the weekend haha. Yeah, happy to give back Swe. Would you be ok supporting me into Moscow?
Thought Austria was supporting you? Turkey gave up on getting Moscow
But yes I can support you
Yeah I thought so too, but he hasn’t responded all weekend....so thank you! I’m assuming he’s just offline. I can keep you posted though
Could you please support ruh>bel?
I am completely putting my Kingdom in your hands this season lol.
Support entered!
Thank you Queen Esther.
Of course, King
Ok Austria got back to me and is supporting me into Moscow, so don’t worry about it!
In that case should go to Moscow as well to show conflict to the other nations?
Yeah good idea
Really is to bad that I missed my moves last season.  That would've been awesome ammunition to use against them hehe
Yeah oh well...I still think we are in good shape for the time being!
Yea you're right. The Sweden move will also help
I will definitely look the the bad guy this season 👺
Hahah here he comes
Austria will be excited and happy 😅
Oh boy. Italy too 😂
True that!
Have you heard anything from France?
He claims he has no interest in fighting me.  I'm like what's with the Belgium disaster?  Haha
He only mentioned that you wanted Bur, that’s all though. That was last Friday
I see.  Quite the trickster
Did you even talk about that with him?
Only asked him if he'd like for me to go help him get mar back
When he declined the offer I said ok
Ahhhh gotcha
Maybe your lack of action this season will cause him to back off/head back for Italy
*last season
Hopefully
Apologies my queen I had completely discarded the idea that russia might add the support again since he was radio silent
Glad you got vie at least!!
That’s ok! I’ll def need your support to Moscow now since Austria is mad at me 😂
Raging mad or just mad? Haha
At least passive-aggressive mad haha
They want to still work with you I imagine?
Doesn’t seem like it :/
At least they locked horns with the turkish now!
I'll dedicate my unit in stp to help you in whatever way you need in the east and in turn could you dedicate one unit to help me smash out this French nuisance?
Also I did not expect that move into vie so I appreciate my queen being willing to be the "bad" guy along with me haha
Thank you! And yes.

Vie was a last minute decision...maybe should have waiting longer to break non aggression with Austria but he made it too tempting
*should have waited
Perhaps. But I think you will be fine. With my unit to help you
Yes I think so too
Hmm just noticed something tho. If  I get you into mos that would block my unit off from being able to help. Think we may have to swap again?
Swap where?
Just want to make sure I understand what you’re thinking
Like swap Moscow for swe. That way I can use my unit in the east to help you
Ok gotcha. Works for me. I'll move my fleet back to Swe and let you have Mos
Cool deal
France wants me to suggest something for him. Any ideas?
Leave Bre behind hahaha
Hmm
Do you want to leave him alone this season or no?
Not necessarily but I could to have him go south
Do you think he’s going to actually do what you suggest?
Not really. But he might since I have him pinned
Yeah fingers crossed. I guess if he goes south, it would get you easier access, even in a season or two
What if I openly make plans with him to stab you if he goes south?
That might work. I don’t know if he’s particularly worried about me or not
Ok I'll see what happens and keep you posted
Cool, thank you
My regal Queen, are you online?
Yes, briefly. I have to get in the car to drive home soon. What’s up?
So france will move to ruh and bur
With 100% trust we can pull off a super cool moveset this year
Ok, what are you thinking?
We let france go into ruh in Hopes of getting mun and I force into hol with support and you retreat into kiel. In the fall I move back out of hol and towards France while you support mun with kiel to deny france
Of course only if you are on board
I do trust you to follow through with the moves- but seems like I still end up losing Hol (at least for next winter). Is the goal just to keep France occupied so you can get into France from the other side?
I have to drive now- will be back online as soon as I can!
No my Queen I  will be leaving hol in the fall
But I’ll need the Kie unit to support Mun I think 🤔
Precisely. Hence the reason of me moving out of hol on my own in the fall
Ah! Gotcha.  Ok let’s go for it! I’m in
Cool deal. Setting my orders as such
Also could you wait to move into swe until the fall?
Yeah, guess that’ll make the whole thing look less planned to everyone else. You’re either a genius or an evil genius hah
Lol you choose ;)
And yes the idea was to not let the other nations catch on to what we're doing
Still all good to go with the plan?
Absolutely my queen!
Perfect!
What's it lookin like for you in Vienna?
Can you support hold my unit in Moscow?
Actually nvm that. Russia is defending mos
Oh that’s good. Austria is definitely after Vie, but I can’t tell if Italy will support them there (so Austria could try to get Turkeys support into War) or if he’ll use both Gal and Bud for Vie
I get the impression that Austria and Turkey have worked together and against each other off and on, so it’s hard to tell what’s going on
Woooooo *high five*
High five back ;)
Were you holding your breath my dear? Hehe
Maybe a bit haha. It’s all good now 🙂
Hehe, I totally understand
My queen, I hope you had a great weekend
Could you do me a favor and bounce with me in nth? Also I propose that we eliminate France Austria and Turkey and draw with Italy
I'm getting bored and the only way left to spice things up would be to stab you which I'll kill myself before doing. So let's wrap this burrito up. Whatcha say?
Hey again! Hope you had a good weekend too. Yeah I can bounce you in Nth. I’m cool with the plan to draw with Italy. Seems like Austria and France will be done with easily, hopefully Turkey too
Awesome! Thank you very much :)
And yes I had a splendid weekend which I topped off with taking my little family kayaking yesterday  ;)
Fun! I went kayaking last weekend actually, good choice
In a river or lake? Both are fun depending if you want chill and relax or fast and adventurous :)
Also I need your support in bel please
River!
And will do
Thank you much my dear!!
No problem!
Italy asked about you, so I told them about plans to three-way tie. They are on board!
Wanna hop into Nth in preparation of a sexy convoy into Syria from Edinburgh?
Oh man. Yeah I can do that
Awesome!!
This game WILL be interesting yet haha
To my Dear and Loyal Queen Esther. 
Respectfully from yours truly:  (I, King Shetan personally write this note "Esther First Queen of England and Ruler of the germans.") I hereby request  that my beautiful foreign Queens would lovingly allow their benevolent "King Shetan The 1st" to close out his empire at 12 scs and in Kingly fashion  generously bequeathing 11 scs to each Queen. (Not sure if that ends with a question mark or an exclamation point haha) whew. I'm glad I'm not actually a king. Would be exhausting to always "try" to speak with eloquent fluidity
The edit is my attempt at doing justice to "Her Majesty"
Are you ok?
Sorry for the delayed response- yes! I appreciate the formal message haha. I’m in agreement; looking forward to getting France, Austria, and Turkey out of our way and wrapping this thing up!
Haha glad you liked it ;) and thank you
Do you have any ideas about  how to handle Turkey? I’d like to get into Ukr to start making that push but I’m trying to think of a strategy where Turkey doesn’t end up in Moscow 🤔
Also Italy wants to discuss how we’ll split up the rest of the board. I wish we could all just have a three way convo at this point haha
I'll support hold Moscow and moscow will support you to ukr. Also I'll ask the if we can get a  group chat for us
Ok thanks! I doubt we’ll be allowed because of the study but worth asking
Am I supporting war or gal into ukr?
Gal
Thanks for checking!!
Ok got it
Yea I'm glad I did lol cuz I first set it for war
Yeah sorry I didn’t specify before. I guess you can’t read my mind 😆
Yea sadly there's limits to our connection :/ hehe
Can you please support Ukr - Sev?
Already done my Queen
Danke
Anything for you my Esther ;)
Whenever you got a minute let me know
Hey I’m on line now
Oh hi :)
So I have an idea that involve yours truly and this 2 Queens coordinating in perfect harmony to bring the fantasy to fruition. Figured what better way to consummate the marriage of this 3-way union right ;)
It involves 2 of your fleets 3 of mine and 4 of Her Majesty Queen Bianca De Medici.
Hahah what’s the idea? Italy and I were going to coordinate to get me into Ank, and then you can take Bre and wrap things up. Sounds like we only have two more moves
This spring turn I would put a fleet in NAO and NTH while you move NTH into NRG and SWE into SKA. My army in nwy goes to swe and in the fall turn it convoys across a body of 9 fleets all the way around the world into Syria!!!!
Oh wow I guess we could do that...let me know if Italy is on board too. We can check with the admin, but it seems like the game is ending winter 1910? In which case your army in Syria won’t be doing anything. But I guess this might be a once in a lifetime chance haha
Keep me posted on what Italy says!
Yea she's on board
Cool cool
Let’s do it
Exciting!! My moves are already in
Wooo going to be a party!
Yes ma'am!! Finish this with an epic bang!! A new big bang theory  haha
drumroll for the epic convoy
:)
How’s it down in the Middle East?? 

I set it to 3 way draw for the final season
Mine is set to 3 way draw as well
Hi Germany--it seems our paths are finally crossing! 
I'm guessing England has made plans with you for the two of you to take over russia. Especially if you help England into Moscow, I can't help but notice that England's territory is starting to...surround yours. That doesn't make for a good partnership. I, on the other hand, would pose little threat to you in Moscow and could help keep England at bay in the North/Baltic. 
I'm open to negotiation if you are!
Hey Turkey, nice to finally meet you! I’m definitely open to negotiation. The problem at the moment is that it seems like Russia is going to support England into Moscow. So even if I support you, you’d bounce and I can’t afford to have England after me just for that
I’m not sure what your relationship with Austria has been so far. He’s been cooperative with me. However, he seemed so single minded about getting rid of Russia...I can’t tell what he wants to do next
Austria and I have been working together solely on taking down Russia, so I'm not sure of their long term plans either...and I haven't heard from A since winter.

I understand about not supporting me into Moscow, and I appreciate the tip about Russia. Could I perhaps just get an agreement from you not to block me moving to Ukraine?
Ok, that’s what it seemed like. I can agree to that!
Are you still interested in Moscow?
oh yes. Why do you ask?
...If there's any chance you could cut support from Livonia, it'd be greatly appreciated!
Gah never mind, I was thinking about proposing as such but I think I’ll need the units elsewhere. Let’s stay in touch though- let me know if you’re ever open to coordinating to control the growth of Austria and/or England in the east
I am open to both of those! I already have plans to curb Austria in the Balkans so if there’s anything i can do to help you with the same in the north just met me know
Glad you and Italy were able to put a dent into Austria!
Thanks! We're gonna keep working on it. What are your plans for eastern Europe these days?
I’m not sure yet, I think I’ll wait to see where Austria disbands
Any chance you'd support me into Moscow this year?
Barring that, I do think it's worth collaborating in the future to keep Italy and England in check, don't you agree?
I can’t support you into Moscow this season, but I do agree about coordinating against Italy and England. It seems like Austria is solely focused on slowing down Italy at this point. I suspect you could get Rum this season?
So. Aaaaany chance you're ready to help me stand up to England? If nothing else, I think it'd be a good way for us to build up trust so that we can take on the rising Italy threat once Austria's dealt with.
I can’t this turn but I definitely want to work together. Maybe next season we can have a deal- something like if you support me into Bud, I’ll support you into Serbia?
I was thinking the same thing. 
Could you reassure me a bit by telling me what you’re stationed in Galicia for and how long you plan to be there?
Awesome. I’m using it for support into Vie this season, hopefully into Bud next season. What are your plans this season/do you think you’ll be able to get into Italy’s territory anywhere?
I'm considering moving into the aegean and pressing into greece, but nothing definite yet
Bonjour! Have you decided anything about the proposed western triple?
I'm in favor, how about you?
Yes, I think that plan makes sense
I mean, I was opening pretty south anyway, so it doesn't really change my opening any 😃
ok, cool
have you gotten any info from Italy?
Just that if I were to build a fleet in Marseilles it would upset him.  So...normal Italy banter
Wanna bounce over Munich or no?
Yes, I think that's a good idea
Entered.
Same here
Good morning, England has proposed the following demilitarized zone to maintain our triple alliance: pic, bur, bel, hol and ruh.  Are you also in favor?
I can work with that -I'll unass from burgundy
Awesome, we are all on board
I am not sure if England filled you in, but I had a brain lapse while entering my last moves and forgot to vacate Hol and Ruh. *facepalm*
Please rest assured I’m still committed to our alliance. England says you’re focusing on taking out Italy?
Yes to both
Question is whether you're going to drop into Tyrolia. And I'm not sure which autocorrect version of that was funnier. Probably tortilla?
I guess there other question is whether it would be worthwhile to bounce in burgundy, as both armies have not much better to do right now
I am going to hold off on Tyrolia for now. Let's bounce in burgundy, I like that idea
Actually never mind- will be moving elsewhere to get out of Hol and Ruh!
Ok, then
Thanks!
Well that's interesting. I assume that wasn't all arranged?
.......no
Didn't look like it.
Are you working with Austria against Italy?
I wish. Austria doesn't like to respond to me
Et tu, Gothus?
Sorry, was a last minute hunch that we’d bounce since we talked about it last season
...alrighty.  This season I was actually trying to move up to threaten Belgium and help you deal with the English.  Supporting me up toward that end would be *greatly* appreciated
Ah thank you, I can do that
Damn, did I forget to shower before negotiating or something?
Sorry 😦 Trying to stay neutral-ish cause I needed a supply center from England
No worries, mate.
Thanks for understanding
How you doin'?
I’m doing alright, trying to move east without upsetting Austria
How’s it going for you?
Better than a turn ago!
That’s good!
Have you been able to get help from England at all?
Not especially, beyond backing off a bit.  He did offer to walk his army through Burgundy, which I thought was special
Hah how generous
You want to coordinate Bel/Hol, or are you still trying to remain neutral?
Ugh idk. I might have to remain neutral there another season, I can’t afford England coming after me from the north or east (and he’s agreed to stop at Moscow for now). I’ll let you know if anything changes
Eh, fecker tried to get me to plow into you so he could walk into me again.  Please forgive my transgression, that's my exclusive focus now
Ugh. Ok you’re forgiven. Are you trying to get Bel next?
Yes, very much so. Primary goal is to deny any English builds, though
I've been on both the giving and receiving ends of multiple games in which Austria, Italy, and Russia decided that their games would be much simpler if there wasn't a Turkey around, and it always was. I propose that we start the game off by coordinating a removal of Turkey before moving on to other priorities.
I think that would be a great idea. How would you propose we split up their territories  afterward? And could I count on your support should Germany move towards me?
Yeah, I'd definitely have your back against Germany. As for the split... I get Ankara and Rumania, you get Bulgaria and Constantinople, and Italy gets Greece and Smyrna?
Fantastic. I'd personally prefer Rumania/Bulgaria and you can have Constantinople/Ankara.
That also works.
Ah SHIT, I'm sorry, I meant to update my orders to fix the Galicia move but it didn't go through. I'll be sending Galicia to Rumania this turn, and then turning Rumania over to you next turn. Promise.
Want Black Sea to support you into Bulgaria?
Yes that would be wonderful
Fuckin goddammit Backstabbr... I acknowledge this might ring hollow two seasons in a row, but I swear to god I had updated my orders but they just didn't take, I guess?
I've got a support order in for Ser-Bul.
I can help you against Turkey still, y'know
Turkey didn't benefit anything from your little stab there, and I'm still in a position to get my forces together to do some good defensive work. We can patch this thing up, man.
Hi?
I'm still trying here, dude
Literally the only person in this game to whom I've actively lied is Turkey, every other message I've sent has gotten the thumbs up
Hello archduke. Just wanted to give a friendly wave and wish you luck in your endeavors  :)
Greetings, hope the royal family is in good health. I wish you the same to you.
Thank you kind sir! Yes we are all in good health , at least for this first season that is haha
Curious if you've gotten the memo about russia?
That they seem to be trying to play everybody?
Yea that one lol
Hello Archduke sir,  looks like you have a nice cozy relationship with the Sultan. Is that something you'd be willing to bring to an end in order to keep the genie from getting out of his corner?
I understand if you would rather not comment on that at this point
Gotta say the Tsar has gained my ire more that the sultan's
I understand
Was Vienna staged? Or is that an OUCH?
Greetings, neighbor! Was wondering if you would like to come to some agreement about how to preliminarily divide up the Balkans?
Hello there! I think that would be great, how were you thinking of splitting them up?
Hmm can I take  Bul & Rum while you take Ser & Gre?
I'd prefer Ser and Rum out of those four
I know that would be your preference, but Russia has offered to support me into Rum anyway, so I figured there'd be less hard feelings if we could just agree to this split and both potentially get two builds? Or, if Russia has made conflicting promises to you, then I hope you'd let me know, and then a) I'd appreciate the intel, and b) we could split things your way?
Got some bad news for you then, Russia also told me the same stuff. Think he might playing both sides to see what he can get.
I think it's unwise to be dishonest early in the game. Just makes everyone trust you less.  Would you be willing to pool intelligence, and maybe see to it that neither of us gets bamboozled?
specifically, what has Russia offered you?
...sorry if I pry too much. I'd still like to work together, if you're interested?
Shall I take your silence as a 'no'?
Listen, I don't know what Russia has promised you but they have been reneging on promises left and right. Ask England. Ask Italy. Ask Germany. I can understand if you don't want to trust *anyone*, including me, but as a friendly word of advice don't leave yourself vulnerable to Russia because they appear by all accounts to be a ruthless opportunist.
Yeah I've noticed. I'm not keep my units on hold until I know what's going. You dont have to worry about me making aggressions just yet.
I appreciate that. I'm not planning any aggressions toward you this season either. ...And I suppose it'd be asking too much to encourage you to take Rum or to aid me in doing so?
I'd really prefer not antagonizing anyone just yet. Being the middle I feel like any move I make can get me in a sticky situation
I understand the feeling. The fact that you kept your word just now goes a long way with me. Let me know if your mind changes about antagonizing, or if there's anything I can do to help you out!
(Sending to Italy and Austria)

France, germany, and England’s behavior combined with some things England has said to me smell of a triple alliance between those three. Do you agree or have any additional evidence?
If so, I want to make sure southeast europe is prepared to push back against such a threat
I would agree. Though I think they probably dont like russia
I can agree there. I just wanted to plant a seed in case this might have to turn into a battle of those three versus us three
want to make moves on russia?
I would! I'd greatly appreciate support into Rum if you're willing?
In return I'll offer you Bulgaria as a *loan*
got my support
Glad to hear it 🙂
supporting from ser
Okay I was gonna ask whether you wanted to move Ser-Bul but I can understand if you don't trust Italy
I'm fine moving in after we take rum. I trust italy pretty well.
Actually, could I offer you Rum instead of Bul? I can support you in this turn and if you think Vienna's safe you can also support from Bud.
That's fine for me. I imagine that Russia knows what's going to happen and will probably try to take Vie so I'd like to make a move to protect it.
So you're going to bounce Tyr and Bud? I'm asking because I was wondering whether you'd be able to support Italy into Piedmont (I'm still trying to make a triple alliance between us three happen).
To clarify, you want me to move into Bul with your support then we switch who controls either next phase?
I'm moving my fleet into Tri to assist. I'm willing to put myself in a dangerous spot for a bit if we can make serious moves on russia. If russia moves in then it should expose their west side to you.
Well, so depending on if I can get Italy to support me into Bul, I'd have you move to Rum this turn. 

What do you mean 'moves in'?
If russia moves their gal army into Vie
Okay yes. I agree that wouldn't be a big problem for you because it leaves Russia vulnerable to me and because you could pretty easily just take vienna back (provided Munich isn't an issue...)
Italy confirmed that they'd support me into Bul, so I'll support Ser into Rum this turn unless I hear otherwise?
Yeah. Currently in a non-aggression with Germany, assuming that holds I think we can make a good push against Russia. I'm on my phone doing this so I have to constantly tab back and forth between discord and backstabber that's why this is a bit confusing.
Support into rum is greatly appreciated.
ah yeah that's a pain. And happy to do it! And I hope you and Italy can coordinate as well, although I know that means more tabbing for you...
I'm surviving. I think we're coordinated as best as we can for now.
So if you're not doing a bounce in Vienna, would Bud be free to poke Gal?
Yes, I suppose I could do that
Worst case for you would still be that Gal moves to Vienna. I was suggesting it incase Russia decides to use Gal and Ukr to support Bul into Rum. But if you think that's unlikely then it's probably not worth the risk
May be better to just have Bud support Ser-Rum for some extra security
Rum is guaranteed for you this year--which will set us up nicely to start surrounding Warsaw/Moscow
Are you still with me to invade Russia? I could use your support for Sev-Ukr.
yeah
Great! And I assume you’ll also push into Galicia?
yeah
Are you hearing anything from Germany?
Broadly speaking, if you arrange with Germany to support them into Warsaw, I'll help you take Warsaw for yourself once I'm able to do so, if you want me to.
just sort of normal truce then deal with england after russia is gone
So what do you think is the best course of action for us this season?
Well Russia is going to lose either Stp or Mos so you can try to move into Mos hoping they move back. Or one of can support the other into Ukr. Im trying to get Germany to support me into War and told them I would help them take Stp once russia was gone and england was the threat
Thanks for the info! I think trying for Ukraine again makes more sense, if you’re willing to support me in.
that works for me. I'll support with Rum.
Would you like support into Ukraine, the better to take Warsaw?
I'd still like to collaborate with you, and I'd like to help you however I can (provided, of course, you're okay with me having Moscow).
Alright, I'm getting the vibe that you *don't* want to try and work things out with me?
I know that I attacked you just a season ago, but Germany has betrayed me after I helped them. Being in the middle I see this as me being about to get caught up in a whole mess, and I'd really like to go after the person who made moves into my home territory. If you want to attack Mos next spring I'll support you from the Ukr.
The two of us are not enough to hold it against Germany/England, so your offer--unlike your betrayal of me--is empty.
in my defense, the plan to take you out was only delayed not stopped.
not exactly a betrayal
Look, I'm sorry I snapped. If you'd be willing to back off me and return Bul, I'd be happy to help you against Germany or at the very least not antagonize you while you fight them
You can have Ukr back to start. I need to reposition before I can just hand off Bul. Hope you understand.
Okay, I’ll take Ukraine this turn then. Thank you!
Is Italy helping you retake Vienna?
either than or giving me an extra serving of betrayal
ah that's always the question isn't it. I'm wondering if I'm under any threat from the two of you in Constantinople...last I spoke with Italy, Italy's units had come over here on the promise of you two destroying me. It kiiinda looks like that's still the case.
Well Italy has told me that as well, but then again Germany also told me we had a non-aggression and here we are. I believe this turn we'll see if Italy is going for you or me. I'm taking back Vienna from Germany and thats my plan for now.
I really wish I could believe that was *all* you were planning
Until i have stability that's all I'm doing
Looks like I got betrayed big time. I'm thinking of going after Italy primarily because they were my first ally and their betrayal hurts the most. Once I'm back at my comp I'll have a better idea of how I'm proceeding.
if you decide to not work with Italy, I can push them back then you can freely take my territory. Self preservation is out the door, I just don't want Italy or Germany to gain anything from their betrayal.
I think it's a little premature for you to entirely throw out self preservation. I'll think it over.
The walls are closing in. I'm not going out without payback.
any thoughts on the matter?
whatever im proceeding as if you're with m
disbanding Gal, i'll support you full into Bul the from there on out we can push Italy out of my territory until my inevitable demise.
Hey sorry for the delay in getting back to you—Italy has promised me Bul but I appreciate your support in case they are lying
well they betrayed me so your betrayal is just around the corner.
I want to see the streets run red with their Ragu and break their spaghetti bones.
I think that seems likely. 
And revenge sure brings out your poetic side! 
...you know that’s kind of how I felt about you when you stabbed me after working with me for several turns.
Once again, never stabbed you. We never had an agreement for anything other than non-aggression until Russia was dealt with.
Well you aggressed and Russia was not dealt with
Believe me or not, but I held out on attacking you as long as a I could and i think that's why italy turned on me.
I aggressed to keep Italy off of me for all the good it did.
Any chance you think germany would turn to your cause?
They have more manpower to take down italy than I do
I'm asking them if they want to help.
Germany said they're in, but sounds reluctant to attack directly. So I'm not sure if they're actually committed to anything or if its just another ruse.
What's the word bird?
Sorry for the delay—tell me how I can help. Is there any chance you’d willingly let me into rum this season?
Think of it as you helping yourself really. If you support my push from Rum into Bul you can just move in and take Rum in the same turn, then we can do the same maneuver next season to greece hopefully.
Not sure how you feel about Germany, but I think they're still working with Italy. I asked them for some help and they gave excuses so I'm expecting them to move from the North on me this sesason. If they don't it will be a pleasant surprise. Just a heads up for what's coming though.
For clarification. You support Rum into Bul, and move either Ukr or Sev into Rum. Next season you support Bul into Gre and move something else into Bul. You get Italy out of your hair and stick it back to them. If Germany actually helps then I continue to push and you follow my units, if they don't then I hold off and you take my territory. Noble last stand and all that noise.
Okay thanks for clarifying. I just placed the order
I support you from Rum into Bud and you support from Bul into Gre? Then you move into next round to prevent Italy from gaining units?
Also open to suggestions, just realized that right now there isn't a lot that stops Italy from getting production.
I don’t have a unit that can reach greece to support you there?
Just noticed that as well.
I think you should try for serbia into tripoli because italy confirmed that they’re attacking serbia with albania
Okay, then do you want to support Bul into Ser and you can move Con into Bul if you choose?
I’m a little hesitant to piss off italy, to be honest.
They were pretty upset about last season and I only just barely smoothed it over
Well, you can either piss them off and have them attack you or you can be nice and have them attack you. Only one of them ends with you gaining something out of it.
That’s...a very good point
"I'm obviously fairly heavily committed to my attack on you at the moment, but I do consider Turkey's shenanigans around Bulgaria a breach so before I forgive and forget I thought I'd offer you a chance to negotiate."
Yeah seems like it was really smoothed over.
Ah, okay.
...So what did you say to Italy?
"at least when my people die they'll die knowing they honored their alliance. Have fun under the boots of england."
That’s pretty good.
Alright, i’m moving into bul and I’ll support you into ser
Word, I'll put the moves in.
I think I'm going to disband at Vie, I can use my other two units to support you into Ser or support with one at Gre and one at Bud.
I think it'd help me more if you dissolve Albania, and hit Ser and Bud to cut support so that Italy can't take Rum or Bul. 

I really will support you into Bud this spring if you want; I'm sorry I didn't follow through on support for you last night but at like 11:30 when I finalized my orders I ultimately decided I'd need another fleet (and therefore a guaranteed build in Bul) to protect from Italy.
Word, I'm boarding a flight now so I wont be able to place orders until later. Not really sure that support would stop me from dying anyway so I'm pretty indifferent as long as Italy loses.
I know it's late notice, but could you poke greece to cut support of Bul?
Sorry for not responding or doing anything. I was in a place I thought I would have service, but did not for 5 days. Good luck defeating the tyrants.
ah I fell on my own sword last season anyway--misclicked when placing my orders 😂
Good game, Austria! Happy trails
You too
What's the play, mate? Something I can help with?
Whats shaking bacon? You allied with Italy or just in  a hopeful non-aggression until they stab you in the back agreement?
More the latter. Though at this point I'm likely to just invite him into my dots. 😀
Well as one who was in a previous agreement with Italy I would recommend either striking first or moving your units to cover your front.  Italy will turn as soon as you leave a good opportunity.
Italy stabs you in the back. What a shock.
Might I recommend striking back with your last dying breath? Join me and destroy Italy.
I invited him in. England has been my bigger issue
Disgusting
So, I'm proposing a northern triple. You, me, and Germany roll down the rest of the board, and then call a three-way draw. It's a good route, because it's a pretty stealthy alliance early on. It looks like an EG taking on France, and Russia just acting normally. How does that sound to you?
I would hop on board with that if germany does
I'll let you know what I hear from Germany.
Ok sounds good. I'll be upfront with you, I had already proposed a western triple but neither have replied so if germany replies to the northern triple first then france can die hehehehe *laughs evily*
Any word from the germans yet? I have reason to believe he is already communicating with the Italians and doesn't reply to me
I haven't gotten anything from anyone but you.
Apparently our alliance is self-establishing lol
I've now heard a bit from Italy, but nought from Germany.
A triple alliance with Italy is sounding a bit better in this situation wouldn't you say?
I'd be quite on board with that as well, it wouldn't really change my opening moves
True that
So about Scandinavia.  Sweden for you and Norway for me I'm guessing?
That's the traditional way to do it, as long as Germany doesn't get dickish.
If he does that just solidifies my suspicions
So, army, huh?
Uh, yea.  Classic opening. Besides we wouldn't want france to get suspicious
Wish you had mentioned something if you were going to be uncomfortable with it. My spring moves were regular old classic as well
Last thing we need is for the rest of the map to get suspicious of the north triplets
Silence is uncertainty and uncertainty is hard to work with man
Sorry about that, crazy last few days for me. I'm gonna build an army in StP to keep up appearances, but I'm still board with the northern triad.
What appearances might those be? You already attacked Turkey
And "gonna build" is future tense. I already see what you built so that text being out of context strikes me weird
Right, yes, sorry, I brainfarted, I'm playing Russia in another game, and also doing a northern triad there, and that game is slightly behind this one in years. Got the games mixed up in my head.
It's a hassle and a half sorting them out sometimes.
That is a brainfart for sure lol
Anyway, having reoriented myself, I'm not going to do anything with StP (I've got a hold order in), and I'll move it out of StP once I see you're not coming my way. I figure it's not a big long-term loss or anything, because it's pretty quick to get it back down south.
Ok I  look forward to seeing it
I don't have time to chat unfortunately so we'll catch up next season
I'll be honest tho, you've given off a very sketchy vibe from the get go  so I will be establishing a strong base in Scandinavia. When/if I see stp move south indicating  you're true intentions I can then begin to ease up on our borders. Thank you for understanding and I hope you have a good night or good day hehe whichever corresponds to you
I mean, I certainly understand what you're thinking here, but, if you start moving more into Scandinavia, that's going to be a problem and a big imminent threat to me. I'd much rather see a status quo here, where neither of us makes an approach against the other.
Let's see that hold order and then we'll talk again
Good morning sir.  I did have just a couple mins to get on.  Just want to give you a heads up that I will attack stp with nwy. Since your issuing a hold order nothing will come of it other than keeping up much needed appearances as you said.
Good to know.
I like keeping things above board
So, you decided to opt for a Western triple instead of a Northern?
Yea I wasn't left with much of a choice
I left you with plenty of choice, and you've got plenty of fleets to go after France.
I would've loved to  try the northern but our stars just didn't align
Not the way the diplomacy worked out i didn't have much choice. The uncertainty was to overwhelming
Hey, I'm here, I'm talking, it's not too late to turn around. NAO is right there, the Channel is right there...
Man I hear you but at this point I need to at least grab stp wouldn't you say?
It wouldn't be fair  if I didn't
I don't think you do. Plenty of stuff you can do without it. You want Sweden? I could support you into Sweden.
You still there bro?
Yep.
Sorry I fell asleep on you lol
I'll take you up on your offer for Sweden man
Problem is to do that you wouldn't be able to defend stp and you'd be going out on a limb that I'm not sure you are willing to lol. Quite the pickle
?
I fell asleep on you, in turn! I'm not good at sleep schedules. Yeah, I'm going out on a limb, but I want us to work together.
Ugh this decision is harder for me than for you apparently lol
Weird how I've put myself in a position that you could be the one to betray me lmao
Question: has germany been in contact with you?
Nope. I've reached out, but no response.
Yea very quiet on my end as well. It's hard to work with silence
Why were you so sketchy at the beginning?
Like apparently offering everybody alliance and such
I feel like you're only wanting to work with me now cuz you're squeezed.
Do you truly want to be my ally?
Well I've found that with Russia, the goal is to piss off as few people as possible, because if a bunch of powers are annoyed at Russia, you won't last long. As for right now, yes, I absolutely do want to be your ally, because I think Russia/England is a very strong long-term alliance.
You've got a lot of really easy paths to expansion that don't go through me, and I've got a lot of paths to expansion that don't go through you. Plus, you've got a friendship going with France, and there's a German right between us that we can definitely handle together, to our mutual long-term benefit.
Hmm guess you went to hard trying to be friendly and it backfired badly. From what I hear ALL your neighbors are gunning for you which would make me the target also if I do side with you :/ but now you seem so cool
Yea I hear you on all of that. Believe me I'm aware of the board state
I'll get back with you on a for certain about Sweden. I trust my word means something to you by now
It does.
Very good. I just need to make sure I know EXACTLY what germany is doing this turn
I will let you know whether I'm with you or against you
Thanks.
Yes sir. It's been a business doing pleasure with you ;)
Aight man we are brothers in arms!!
I'm ready to rock and roll with you
You've got the support order. I'm leaving it to you to not get greedy.
You got it man.
Hey bru got a second?
What's up?
That wouldn't be the greatest thing. I want them in the dark so how bout you don't support me to Sweden and instead defend stp. My diplomacy with germany worked to where I can just walk into Sweden.
I was thinking about how they gonna know we allied if you support me
Fair enough. I'll put the support order in.
I'm thinking straight here right?
Yeah, you're on point.
Aight bet.
Oooo I like your lingo! 
"You're on point" that's my style lol
Where you from my g?
Lifelong born-and-raised New Yorker.
No shit. I got a friend vacationing in new York right now
I want to be there one year when the ball drops!!!
-applauds- Nice stab, my man. Nice stab.
Yea the diplomacy worked out super well
Tks btw hehe
Mornin brotha. How goes it?
Curious, was Austria moving into tyr your doing?
It was not, Austria hasn't been talking to me.
So, what I'm thinking I'm gonna do is, I'll sent my BOT fleet into StP, and my StP army down into Mos to deal with the Turk. Does that sound all good to you, or is there something you'd rather the BOT fleet help you with?
I mean would be cool if you could keep it in bot to cut bal support.  My nwy fleet is moving to ska so you can safely utilize stp down south. We can dmz stp and nwy. Well nwy is already going to be DMZ because of what I'm doing
Sure, I'll tap BAL.
Actually for the spring turn it would be better to support swe.
Gotcha. Order updatee.
Er, updated.
Thank you sir
How would you like some help against that gobbling turkey?
I'm trying to get Austria back on board but he's just not responding.
The pope said they have good diplomatic  influence  with Austria so if I move on france they will be happy to help put the plug on turkey
So do I have your defensive support on Sweden this turn?
Sure thing!
Thank you sir
I think I  may be in the same boat as you lol
Then we'll shove this boat up everyone else's asses, eh?
Hahaha I like that idea!!
Well shit bru,  I have tried everything I can think to change the board stacked against you to no avail
At least I won't have to suffer for very long, I guess.
True
I'm gonna move swe to finland to back you up or at least to not let Turkey and Austria get stp
I'm sure you'd rather stp be English than freaking Turkish
100%. It's yours, and I'll try and get you Moscow too.
That would be sweet actually my brother. If I can get a strong footing in the east I can battle Turkey back (I think)  lol
Still same plan?
Are you gone my friend?
I am so sorry!! It hurts to see your support wasted like that!!
S'all good! Hopefully it'll work in the fall.
Yes
I assume you will issue a support hold order for Moscow?
Already in.
You're awesome!
Shall we juggernaut this bastard?
you'll have to define 'juggernaut' and 'this bastard'
Basically just "Hey, you wanna work together?"
I'll certainly consider it. Do you have any specific requests in mind regarding the Balkans and Black Sea?
I'd rather we didn't bounce in the black sea - If you move your fleet to Constantinople then you can get it out into the Mediterranean really quickly, to both of our benefits.
I'm not sure I know you well enough yet to just hand you the black sea, though. What's in it for me?
Rumania? I'll support you in.
If you want me to have Rumania (and presumably you don't want to take any of my holdings), what use is it to be in the Black sea anyway?
I'm imagining your being in Rumania as a short-term trust-building sort of thing. You're in there for a year, maybe two tops, and you get builds from that that allow you to build more fleets to flood the Med, and I get the long-term comfort of not worrying about you going to BLA. Once we start picking up Italian/Austrian dots, we can trade Rumania back to me to keep some parity going.
I'm tentatively on board with this agreement but I will let you know definitively when I've heard back from our pastry and opera loving neighbor
Sounds good.
Have you spoken to Austria at all? If so, what have you told them?
Told Austria I was gonna be working with them to dig you out, was lying through my teeth.
well how can I be sure you aren't lying to me, rather than them? Did you make any specific promises to them?
...well I know I didn't formally agree, but I hope you can see from my leaving the black sea open for you that I do see the value in us working together.
...don't you think it's a little early in the game to cut off communication entirely?
Sorry about that, busy morning/afternoon at work.
I think we're well set up for the future.
I'd like to think so, too. Would you still be willing to support me into Rum this turn?

I haven't heard anything from Austria and that worries me...have you?
I haven't heart squat from Austria. Quite worried. And yeah, you've got my support into Rum.
if your priority for our alliance is 'flooding the mediterranean', then it would benefit us both for me to have two builds this turn. Would you be willing to support Con-Bul as well as Bul-Rum?
Yeah, good call. So ordered.
Hi France! I'll let you know if I hear anything you want to know about the way the board is shaping up, I hope you'll do the same. 😃
Always, my czarist friend.  Just starting to touch base with people, so nothing much of interest yet.
Hi Sultan, think we could establish a media alliance in which we share vital intel for each other in hopes of ensuring our corners?
I think that sounds doable. If I hear anything that might be relevant to you I'll let you know.
Very good. That being established, I'm curious if russia has made allegiance with you
We're talking but I would not describe it as an allegiance.
Aight tks man
Any questions for me?
I'd be interested to know if you've heard anything from France or Italy?
Nothin from france.
And Italy we just talked alot about life lol and a little about what we both think about russia
Well now he's messaging me
hmm...Russia hasn't responded to me since last night...have they talked to you at all today?
No nothing on my end either. He just made me beautiful promises of a northern alliance with me and germany and then that was it. He is very sketchy if you ask me
I'm willing and ready to eliminate him with you if you would like
yeah I'm starting to get that impression (of sketchiness). I like where your head's at but it's still a little early for me to commit to that
I totally understand my brotha. Either I'm going to go ahead and convoy my army to nwy in preparation
A solid opening move.
I wish I had more intel for you but Austria's been quiet all day too. Heard from them?
Nah just a friendly wave at the beginning wishing me good luck and that was all
So austria being quiet too. 
Even more sketchiness on russia then
That's what *I* think! I'm paranoid they've decided to close in on me like pac man on a dot
I feel safe to say that you won't have to worry about italy tho
why's that?
Italy is aware also of Russia's devious ways and actually wants to rally with you and austria. Just said that he's at the gym right now and will get to that when done
well that's encouraging. Thanks now I can not-be-at-the-gym in peace 😃
I was serious when I said I wanted your corner secured just as much as mine so I'll do anything to avoid a lepanto
Hehe yes you can rest in peace not in pieces
Russia is makin our work easy with his sketchiness lol
nothing unites like a common enemy
Very true
Well I tried to flaunt my stuff up there ;) can we go on a date now?
Hmm I hear St. Petersburg is lovely
I'm the queen you the Sultan. Take me out 😘
Don't tell me that attack on ank was staged :/
Sure was not! Why do you ask?
Let me guess; that's what Russia told you?
Lol not hard to guess correctly there right
I figured he was lying
I take it you and Germany have an understanding? 

Just a suggestion, but if you'd like to increase your odds of taking StP, you should have Nwy-Stp, Bar s Nwy-Stp, Nwg-Nwy, Nth s Nwg-Nwy. This way, if Russia decides to use their fleet to defend StP, you can retreat Nwy to Fin for free
Actually I just sandboxed it and somehow that doesn't work...sorry; disregard!
Haha yea that confused me lol
I'm still pretty new to this game lol. But anyway, I'm glad we can put the screws on Russia together! I think Austria might have seen the light about Russia, though not sure yet
Sultan my charming prince are you online right now?
Sorry your majesty I was sleeping
No problems. 
Ready to squash the tzar? Hehe
I'm glad to see my efforts in avoiding a lepanto paid off for you :)
What *were* those efforts, exactly?
Seemed like France did the heavy lifting’s all I’m saying
Is that sarcasm I sense? :/ lol jk
Oh yea I was just behind the scenes nudging and encouraging France
Never mind I'm saying to much
It’s fine I’m not sure I believe you anyway 😛
You didn't think to question why France would move south? And so completely committed? Js
Lol good. It's better for me if you don't believe me in this
GO France. France is the man!
So this implies a triple alliance of France, Germany, England then? Because France wouldn’t do this without Germany’s word, and *you’re* taking credit for France!
No you're right. I was trying to take credit that's not mine :/
I just wanted to impress you
Guess that backfired pitifully
Your commitment to headgames is impressive, I’ll give you that
Lol I guess that's a compliment?
I wasn't playing headgames with you until you didn't believe me. Then I was like screw it I'll just roll with the punches then haha
Anyway. Pretty soon we'll have to talk about who gets what from Russia. We all gonna want a slice of the pie
We “all”? Is Germany sharing in this?
Or [shudder] Austria??
Well hopefully not Austria
At least not for more than one season if only to help us take out russia
I figured you had already engaged him to help you against the tsar.
And germany I'm sure will want at least war
Germany hasn't stated what she'd like to get I just figured it was the obvious you know
Well Germany will have to talk to both of us about that
Right. Unfortunately she don't talk much.  Guess she'll have to open her mouth if she don't wanna miss out
Are you and Germany are still on good terms? I'm really surprised you ended up in Sweden
We're sorting things out. Or trying to. They had broken a dmz treaty the first  year so forced my hand a bit. But we'll see what comes of it.
So do I take it you've lost interest in invading Russia for the time being?
Yea well catching wind of France's  betrayal took the wind out of me lol. Let me deal with this threat real quick first
But seems you got him... more than handled lol
I do hope so...
It's funny how your "allies" keep "betraying" you yet you seem to be the one who keeps getting dots... 😛
Yea that is weird
I did have a falling out with Germany  but I'm  working  it out with them and I will  make it up to them
I'm impressed you wheedled a support out of Russia last fall. You're full of surprises! So, are you and Italy collaborating to take down France?
Honestly I feel like I no longer no what's going on lol
But yes I  think that's the plan.  If Italy doesn't have death in mind for me
Hey man you online?
What are we doing about Moscow? 
Must admit I want it
Well if you try to take it I must admit i’ll be...difficult
I'd like to come to some sort of understanding about it
What level of difficult are we talking and in what way?
Understand this: I've been hammering away at Russia while you've been running around in the west and the Atlantic. I will do everything I can to make Moscow mine.
Yea I suck at playing hard ball so do what you feel you deserve. And yes you're right. You've been hammering away at Russia and with Austria's help been very successful.
I'll give you that for sure
Well fyi I'm going for Moscow so do with that as you see fit
Oh wow I'm rereading our messages this morning (good morning btw) and wow do I sound horrible!! Long and hard day at work trying to unite my fellow contractors and stop bitchiness amongst us, seems to have leaked into here :/ I'm sorry
Also kinda got on my high horse with what you said about me but you're totally right I've just been kinda gallivanting around aimlessly. I do have a lot to learn, it's not like I do in depth studies on how to play DIPLOMACY or anything I just like to make a party out of it and have a good time lol. But I can see I can learn from you. Again sorry about how nasty I sounded
That’s alright I prefer honest nastiness to dishonest courtesy
Haha very true!
Which makes honest courtesy the ideal world in which case I would ask that you consider making an exception with Moscow for me as that would keep our borders very simple
Our borders are simple now. You have countless avenues for expansion. France, for instance.
I take it you have already made a deal with Germany and Austria for mos?
I've made arrangements that factor in Russia working with you, but I'm not going to say more.
Hmm that's interesting
Clearly don't need your snark right now, England! I figure there's no sense fighting you over Moscow now that I've got other things to deal with, so it's yours next season as far as I'm concerned.
Ok thank you. And seems you won't have to take anymore of my snark for a good long while as I obviously have my own problems to deal with now too.
Eh, you were stretching yourself too thin trying to get a foothold in France *and* russia, I think. But you'll survive!
Yea I did make a blunder back there. Had to take a couple steps back to regain my balance
Our 2 corners are looking decently good tho so there's that
Care for a western triple with germany? Ive long wanted to try this
I love triples, myself.  Especially when I'm not Germany
Hi president, apologies for the late reply, i worked ALL NIGHT LONG till 5 a.m. and yielded myseld only 2 hrs of sleep then it was back to work 😱 just barely now taking a lunch break
Glad to hear you'd like the triple. 
Guess this means you launch off the Iberian peninsula towards italy and let me have bel?
That could work - just coordinate with the German.
Ok thank you Mr. President. 
Much obliged
Very nice very nice! This is a promising alliance :)
I propose we demilitarize any and all neighboring territories between france, you and me. I will relay this same message to France and if you're agreed to it relay it to france as well and we have him relay it back to us. I wish we could have a 3-way chat with him.
I sent that to germany and copied and pasted to you for the sake of keeping it exactly the same. Let us know what you think please. Again a pleasure doing business with you Mr. President I look forward to our future
We're all good. And I'm thinking if you don't object I build f Brest, army Marseille - fleets are headed to the med anyway, it's just as far that way, and gives Italy less heads up
Yes i'm good with that
Did germany message you about the dmz?
I don't think so, lemme check messages
Yep, he did. I'm good with it.
Good deal! Man I wish we had a 3-way chat! Would make being on the same page so much easier
Hey brother have you had communication with Russia lately?  Was hoping we could compare notes
Negative. But I was a little out of pocket this weekend, so I want really reaching out to anyone
I see, yea same here. Had a great time with the in-laws
Hey bro, you available to chat real quick bout something?
What's up?
Driving, so I might be a tick slow
Well I was gonna talk with you about germany not honoring our DMZ treaty but they replied to me now and we got it sorted out
Got it. 😀
Well, that's not really what I expected. What's the play from here?
It's not what I wanted either but it was that our turn the whole board against us.  Ppl were already catching wind of it western triple :/
And had I continued my russian assault then Turkey would've been unstoppable.  Nothing really changes for you however.
Well, I would've pushed on burgundy and Tyrolia if you'd given me a heads up, but c'est la vie
I wanted to give you a heads up but gotta admit there was risk in that.  I wasn't sure you would've exactly seen it the way I did lol
But it's ok. You can stay focused on Italy if you want.  I can handle germany
Eh, Italy's slow until Austria decides to stop propping him up.  No reason not to move one army up to burgundy - I can always say it's because I'm concerned about your aggression
Ok sure that'll be nice
In that case you'd like Munich right?
I mean, I wouldn't turn it down
Ok then mun is yours
Hey you still there?
Morning
Good morning  bro. Beautiful day in the mid and nao aint it hahaha
The channel has rough waters but I  think I can survive lol
Ya know, England doesn't typically try to screw the guys he talked into the Triple for a couple years, when they're nice and buried on other fronts.
I did make a huge blunder in an attempt to put the brakes on Turkey. I'll own that
No redemption for us I guess?
There's always room for redemption!
What would that look like this turn?
At least a ceasefire and I can pull my armies out of your lands
I hear Italy is trying to plot against me. If you agree to a ceasefire I promise to pull armies out of your lands
Or actually use one of them to help you get mar back in the fall seeing as mar will fall this spring
Although if you can give me an ounce of trust that I will move out then you'd be free to use bre and par units for the retaking of mar. Let me know what you want to do. For right now I will pull my pick army back out into my island
To be honest, I'm not going to be in a very trusting mood this turn, but if I see some backing off I will happily refocus on Italy
Totally understand bro. Pic is going to Wales and nao holding
If that happens, I should be in a good position to lock up Italy from further gains
Right.  It's in my best interest to leave you in peace
You shall see in a couple hours ;)
So how are we feeling brotha?
Feeling fine, hoping we're truly disengaged at this point.  I am not in any way pushing on you this turn
Ok great. And yes. Absolutely disengaged. I'm conveying Wales to nwy. Gonna havta put the brakes on Turkey from the north or we're all screwed
My army in bel is doing nothing.  I could help you retake  marseilles if you'd like
I think I'm good there 🙂
Very well
Assuming you're suggesting walking Bel through Bur - which would be hilarious, but I don't think actually helps much with Marseilles
How would it not help? That would give you  4 units to Italy's 3
There are only three land spaces next to Marseille. I have two armies that can move to two of those spaces, and a fleet in the third.  There are no other spaces to put a helping army. 😀
Oh well if you're using both of your units there then yes there's no room for mine. I'm just saying with  mao backfilling Spain then spain could go to mar with double support and succeed. In which case I guess I could backfill mao to keep Italy out
If I may ask, where are you from bro? Seems like our timezone don't mesh very well
I see
Good work getting Italy to turn back
But my hours are shifted to be pretty early
East coast
Busy weekend with family?  2 whole days for a response Haha.  Was thinking you hated me :/
I guess there really is no redemption for us eh?
Hah. I responded two days ago and forgot to hit the thumb
Ah that would do it lmao
Welp the war drums are beating loud and clear! Good luck and may the best man win 🤪
I still have little interest in fighting you. 😀
The Belgium disaster says otherwise lol
Do you have a proposal then?
You a sneaky one Haha 
"I have *little* interest in fighting you"
Hey, I didn't trust you were actually backing off. And if made certain commitments to the Italian, which is now consider fulfilled
All the moves this turn are purely defensive, fwiw.
FWIW?  Not familiar with that term?
And what does purely defensive moves mean for Belgium since Belgium still is English?
I will obviously be trying to keep bel English
Are you forgetting some thumbs again?
Nope - was the middle of the night for me. 😀
FWIW -> for what it's worth
Ah I see
So what's this next year going to look like for our salvation?
Good question. I'm pinned, so I can either do something stupid or twiddle my thumbs. Any suggestions?
Idk. Do you trust me at this point?
That is the hinge of it all I believe
Not especially, but I also don't especially distrust you, and I don't trust anyone on the board especially more than you. 😀
Fair enough
Let's think on it a bit and see what we can come up with
I'm in caged mode, so the more your suggestion amuses me, and the more ridiculous it is, the more likely I am to run with it
Hahaha ok I'll keep that in mind lmao
I'm busy at work right now but I'll get back with you
So you wanted crazy and hilarious huh. How bout you go for mun and I go for hol
You can access ruh and bur for the taking of mun
Idk you give throw me a proposal
Sounds like fun - let me pull up the map
Sold and entered.  Any issue with me  tapping English?
Just for more fun or what?
Well, two reasons.
1) It's defensive, keeps you from getting a support on me - and doesn't look like it'll spoil anything else you'd be doing
2) Helps hide the real reason for moving to Ruhr
Just curious was all. Yea that sounds fun
Bel will not get attacked right? Cuz it is supporting nth into hol
Not touching Belgium
Already adjudicated but tks
It's looking good for us. Germany is screwed now. They chose wrong time to piss off Austria lol
Oh, I guess I could have checked the map first 🙂
Haha no worries. Did you just wake up?
No, but I just started checking messages on this computer 🙂
Gotcha
Oh, the East is a hot mess right now.
And that ain't no lie Haha!!
So, Austria crossed some lines we'd negotiated.  If you'll help me take them down, I'll split their territories with you.
Hello Italy! I chose you as the first country to message to try to figure out the truth/lie setup
All right I see how it works now :).
Anyways, I'm sure we both know how Italy can be at the start of the game, having trouble expanding quickly, but right on the border with Trieste making Austria a tempting target
I firmly believe that Italy/Austria is one of the most fruitful alliances possible in the game. If we work together early, we can be dominant against Turkey, giving you complete naval supramacy over the Mediterranean and highly favoring us over R/T in a fight in the Balkans.
I happily await your response :)
Hi Austria! An alliance between us sounds good. Look forward to working with you
Sounds good! Do you mind letting me know your plans for Venice this turn? A move to piedmont would give me great peace of mind
I'll probably keep the army in Venice for the time being, perhaps we could have Tyr as a DMZ between us?
All right understood. Hope we can work together!
I look forward to it
Just for full transparency, I'm going to be going to Tyr this turn, not as a move against you though
Hmm, I'm not thrilled about that. What are you doing with the unit in Rome?
Heading up to Piedmont
Okay, so you plan to use tyrolia against Munich then?
Not necessarily against them, just to have a unit on the border
Frankly, I'm not very interested in letting you do that. I'd prefer Venice hold.
I'm sure you would
Ok. I should let you know then that I will be moving Trieste->Venice. Nothing personal, of course. I just need to make sure my border is safe.
It was mainly to keep Germany on edge, you'd have though I wouldn't have told you as you'd have obviously moved on Venice

I will remain in Venice for now though
Well in my opinion Germany is one of our strongest possible mutual allies in the north, so I'd prefer if you didn't move on him either. I know I'm being difficult, and I apologize, but as Austria at this point in the game I have to try to stay as guarded as possible.
Since Germany seems to be afk, I'd be open to you moving on Tyrolia so we can work together to consolidate Munich and Berlin before the northern powers get there.
Okay, I'll be moving to Tyr this turn
Hi Italy! Got any juicy gossip?
Nothing yet, you?
Nothing as of yet. How do you feel about an AIR? If the three of us all run in hard on Turkey, our game will be SO MUCH simpler.
That's you, me and Austria?
Yup. We go in hard, dig out Turkey, then you go after France, Austria goes after Germany, and I go after Scandinavia and England. Or you and I turn on Austria and crush him between us. Either way, you and I make perfect natural allies.
Sounds like a plan!
Hey there, how's it going?
Morning, England! All very quiet so far, you heard much?
Midnight for me lol. Nothing too concrete yet ~~ for now I'm mostly trying to figure out how worried I should be about any Juggernauts on the horizon
Anything to that effect on your end?
Ah, just gone 08:30 here! I've only spoken with Austria so far and they seem worried with a Rus/Tur alliance

I must say that I think France will need to be curtailed as they can often spiral out of control
Well, all our neighbors are certainly dangerous :p
Do you have something in mind to keep France down specifically?
Probably worth seeing where they move to begin with
Yea, fair enough
Hi Italy, I think we should at least touch base since we share a neighbor
Have you had any contact with Austria yet?
We've been in touch
What are your plans so far? If you wish, we can work together to push out Austria.
Going to see the opening moves and see where we can go from there
I hope we have some basis for a mutual understanding now?
Russia also stabbed me...
Aye, I imagine it's to do with the Black Sea?
I plan on moving to Greece this turn as that'll give me a foothold to help you against Austria
Sure, I'll need to reconsider what to do with the black sea
Have you heard from Austria?
Talk to me. If we don't work together austria/russia will win
Austria is hoping that I'll move against Germany with him which could give us a chance to hit him as he pushes North
Hm, I'm thinking I need to sacrifice Bul or move to greece with your support
Once I clear out the black sea I can then go back to Bul and support you in
This seems like an excellent opportunity for them to do a supported move onto Bul with Alb-Gre to block my escape
If you're okay with that, I can move A Bul - Gre with your support and withdraw from Bul for a second.
By the way, he can move F Alb - Adr at which point it will become very hard to attack Tri
I want to give you sufficient space to get Tunisia or greece maybe
but of course I don't want to get overwhelmed here either
I'll support the retreat
Thanks
I guess that turned out fine for me. Just sad that you again didn't do much. You could've easily gotten Tun in Fall, in time for the builds
Look -- France is out for you now and Austria is not your friend. I'm just trying to help you here so that you can help me
Hey there neighbor. What are your plans for Austria?
Having spoken to him, we're on decent terms at the moment so just going to see how it goes
You had much contact with Britain and Germany?
yes, Germany it seems like Germany is headed West 😦
Damn
Any chance you can help@me with a love to Tyrolia?
Consider it done
Sweet
I assume there's nothing to be done that could stop you from attacking me?
I’m always open for discussion. What do you have in mind?
Austria seems to be afk, so I could assist you in mopping him up?
Hello Germany! Typically I find that we two powers tend to have a stance of mutual neutrality with one another, and I'm happy to not go against the grain here.
I don't have an intention of moving to Tyrolia or anywhere near Munich at any time in the near future, if ever! So I'd like to hear that you have a similar mentality towards our relationship.
Keep Tyr and Boh clear and I'm content with mutual neutrality
Good to hear. Hope we can persuade Italy to do the same!
👀
Hey, it looked like you weren't playing the game. I was just trying to look into getting the centers of an afk player before someone else did.
Yeah, some stuff came up and I missed the first turn. I am playing though.
All right good to know. I can back off then
Hey Germany! Got any thoughts about Sweden?
I do, but I'm curious as to what you'd suggest.
Well, I mean, obviously I'd like to get it for myself, because Russia is fairly fragile overall. I like Russia/Germany as an alliance, because we can project lots of force in directions that aren't right after each other.
I'm in
Just stay out of pru and sil unless you give me some heads up
You got it.
Hey neighbors ~~
What would you say to a western triple? We'd have to be careful about it and simulate some in fighting to prevent the east from teaming up in response, but I think we can pull it off
I'm willing to consider it if all 3 are in
France says their in, so I think we can make this work
What would you propose from here?
I'd say we can take on Russia pretty well together -- I can go North to take Stp by 02 or 03 and you can bounce them out of Swe and I'd support you in in the coming years
From there, Id try to march my armies south on the Eastern edge of the board, you could go through the middle towards Austria, and France can be swinging south through Italy in the meantime
That seems fair enough, I'm in
Great, glad to have you on board
Ah it looks like you missed you're turn
It would appear that way
But I have my next orders in so it's all good
Ok, that's good
Do you think it'd be ok if for next turn I take Denmark and you take Holland, so that I can get the extra build to stage my attack on Russia? I'd be happy to give it back the following turn
Anyways, those are the orders I put in for now, so just let me know if I should change them
I'm in, as long as you actually move out. Otherwise, we might have an issue.
Yeah, for sure -- I just want to be sure I'm ready to kick Russia out of Sweden asap
What are we thinking for builds?
So I'll support myself into Sweden and you can follow up with your army and start to bring your fleet east thru Kiel?
Hey Germany, looks like you missed the first turn but what are you plans for the future?
I'm not on good odds with Russia at this point so wouldn't mind working together against them
IDK if I'm going to have a chance but I'll take you up on that if I make it later into the game
Sure, though I can see that is a big if at the moment!
Have you talked to England yet? I got an interesting message from them.
yeah, he wants to do a western triple.  what do you think?
I'm in
What do we do from here, I want to make sure we don't let everyone else in on our scheme yet but I also don't want to upset you
I think we need to talk about how to split up bel hol and den
I think I should get hol you bel and England den
I don't know how comfortable I am giving up Den, it's pretty close to home
What happened dude
I missed some turns, probably going to have to disband some stuff, but are you willing to help me push back on england/russia?
Sure
Cool, thanks
Hello Russia! I'm highly interested in working with you. As Austria I strongly believe in the necessity of acquiring a strong early alliance, and who better than a partner who can help me keep down Turkey :)
The first clear point between us is dependent on how we want to arrange the balkans, and of course, the typical sore point between us in Galicia. I would be interested in hearing your thoughts on both of those.
I'd much rather neither of us worry the other about Galicia, it makes no sense to even feign a fight. The single most important thing that Italy, Russia, and Austria can do for their future success on a board, in my opinion, is not have a Turkey extant. If the three of us work together and coordinate it properly, Turkey will fall fast.
Turkey hasn't said anything to me just yet
So what moves are you planning? Seems tough to go hard against turkey so early
As long as you, me, and Italy all go in and coordinate, Turkey won't be able to stand up to us.
I'm trying to trick Turkey to let me into the black sea.
As austria, I am slightly worried that any alliance that includes us 3 will result in me being the odd man out once Turkey has been removed.
Fwiw, I don't plan on that at all. Once we're done with Turkey, you can run in on Germany, I can run in on Scandinavia and England and Italy can run in on France, then we call a three-way draw. Bing bang boom.
Fair enough, let me know if you manage to let turkey into BLA
So, Galicia, huh?
I was expecting you to move there yourself. You seemed very flippant about bouncing there and I was worried that you weren't going to keep your word. Now I look like a backstabber :/ sorry
Hey, I'm gonna cover my shit so I won't actually lose anything. Long as you move back out, we're cool.
You don't have to worry about it
All good thus far? Anything we need to check up on?
I'd appreciate support into Bulgaria if you can spare it, but if not that's cool.
Bit busy rn for this weekend, I should be able to get orders in but my diplomacy will suffer
No problem at all.
So, what shall we do here?
England, it's tough for us to foster relations this early, but I hope we can keep each other posted on any intel we gain from opposite sides of the map from one another.
Agreed, but I would also be happy to
Good to hear. Awaiting messages from Russia who I imagine is the most important player that we both need to deal with.
So far, they've promised me they're not going for a Juggernaut, but pretty much every Russia would say that
They also told me they wanted to go after Turkey early; have you heard anything about that? Cuz if not, I'd have to think he's being sneaky ya
Russia said the same to me
Ah ok, that's a bit reassuring at least
Just a heads up I'll be moving to Mun again, so we'll end up bouncing if you go for it
Hello Turkey. We share natural enemies in Russia and Italy, so I'm interested in a partnership between the two of us.
I would like to know if there's any chance you try a slightly unorthodox opening to Armenia to try to shut down Russia quickly and early, working with me. I would be very interested in helping you on anything like that.
Hi Austria, I'm not against an armenia opening but I'm not sure I can commit as of yet. In what way can you assist?
Well I will very likely be moving to Galicia in the spring
And I could also move to rumania if it would assist you
Hey, best of luck with Russia in black sea. Hope things go well for you
Yeah it's kind of problematic
Do you still plan to go for Rum?
What are your long term plans here? Russia has a much better developed board state and will end up in a much nicer position after I'm done for.
I think Russia is going to have to retreat very soon
England has a way in through Nwy - Stp
and I'm sure you've realised that, as it stands you're not getting Munich
France, it's tough for us to foster relations this early, but I hope we can keep each other posted on any intel we gain from opposite sides of the map from one another.
I certainly agree. Have you had any dialogue with Germany or Italy yet?
Germany and I have agreed to demilitarize bohemia and tyrolia, and nothing from Italy yet. How about you?
I haven’t heard from Germany or Italy. Me and England have agreed to dmz the channel. That’s about it.
Hello, England! What's your general train of thought on what to do?
Not quite sure yet to be honest -- still trying to get to know the board
Any ideas on your end?
My inclination is to focus south. I won't put an army in StP, you don't put an army in Norway. Fair deal?
That sounds good to me
I just hope you're not planning a Juggernaut ~~ then it'd be almost irresponsible of me to not do anything ya?
otherwise tho, I'll be more than happy to just leave each other be ya
I think that Russia's game is simplest when Turkey doesn't exist. Don't worry about a juggernaut.
Great, glad we'll be able to work together then
Well, Germany crippled himself a little bit there, which is nothing but good news for us
I'm planning to build a fleet in St Pete's south coast to really drive the knife home on Germany, but I will gladly change that if you want.
Just to emphasize there - SOUTH coast.
That's sounds ok to me, though I honestly think we have more than enough naval presence already, and a land attack from Warsaw/Moscow could be promising
But if you want another fleet just for your own peace of mind, I understand completely of course
All good thus far? Anything we need to check up on?
Yep, I think we just Kie and Ber right? 
I guess one question is - if I take Kie with Den, would you be ok taking Ber with Bal?  That way we can keep our borders a bit less militarized y'know
You got it.
Great, thanks
Sorry about the stab man -- I was just real scared about any more fleets coming out of stp
I mean, I'm picking up 2 dots and only losing one, so I can still build. We're not actually at a dealbreaker here, as long as you don't take Sweden and you leave that fleet in the north coast, I can live with it.
Alright, thanks for your understanding, I would like that arrangement
So, what shall we do here?
I'm debating between securing Hol and swinging down right away into Eng, what do you think?
I think that now is your best chance to actually get into ENG, so, I would do that, if I were you.
hm, yea, probably -- I guess once I'm in eng, I can get hol or Bel in the fall too anyways
Alright I'll go for that then
Yeah, exactly. I'm going to get an army into Berlin, if that doesn't bother you? That will let one of us get into Munich in the fall.
If you'd rather I didn't, I'll refrain.
I'm ok with the army into Berlin, but with my fleet in Kie, I probably cant help too much with taking Mun
But if you can get support from someone else, yea go for it
Sigh. I keep trying to point you towards dots that are both easier to get, and more beneficial to your long term vitality, and yet..........
You are a strong and scary lad
Lmao I'm really not, Russia's size makes it seem more imposing than it actually is
Sorry, maybe I'm a bit of a nube °>.<
Siiiiiiiiiiiigh.
:p
Hello, brother Turk! Whaddya say we just steamroll this board? Full juggernaut, no funny business, get your fleet out, pop mine, roll the board. I like picking an ally early on and sticking with them, and I want it to be you.
Hi Russia, I do think an alliance between us would be ideal.  I plan to do a fairly standard opening and we can work from there
What do you think? Are we good to proceed?
Yep. I'll send Sevastopol to Rumania, you send Ankara to Constantinople, and we can juggernaut this.
I'm not sure I'm ready to commit on the black sea yet, though. What do you say we bump there for the first year?
I mean, I feel like it's a pretty big waste of time, because there's a huge tactical momentum advantage to getting your fleet out, but if you insist then we can bounce.
What do you suggest I do with my fleet then?
If you go to Constantinople in the spring and then the Aegean in the fall, you'll be able to build a second fleet to put yourself in the Ionian, or at least hold the Ionian under threat, AND you'll have two on Greece to get your fifth dot.
If I can do that, I wouldn't mind helping you out getting rumania and deploying a unified western front
eastern front*
That sounds perfect to me.
Ok, let's do it
An unfortunate unfolding of events
If you pull out of Bla I'll reconsider where we stand but otherwise I can only view it as a hostile action
I will absolutely pull out, it must have taken an older version of my orders before we agreed on not bouncing. Sorry about that.
So what is your plan for the next turn?
Black to Sev, Sev to Rum, Ukr to War, BOT to Swe.
Sure that sounds good to me
bad move, now you've let moscow open to england
If I look at the state of the board maybe we should reconsider allying...
Yeah, we probably should. This is a bloody mess.
I'm pulling Syria off the board.
Thank you. I'll develop towards Austria to keep pressure off you. If you want we can stab A together
Sounds good to me. I've gotta cover my ass right now, but as soon as I can I'll help you work on Austria.
Just FYI I'm still taking Bla because I haven't completely forgotten the past few years.
To show that I don't have hostile intent, I used Arm so that I cannot pressure Sev for now.
I appreciate that.
But I do need to exit through Bul.
Thank you for your trust. Could you support a hold on serbia so I don't get push out from there?
I plan to move into greece with bul
You got it.
Looks like A forgot to input commands
Bit of a lucky break for us.
Sure, yeah.
I'm still worried about F + E
Italy is basically gone.
If A crumbles to us then F will probably gain a few more too
and it's clear F is readying for a naval assault on me as well
I hope you will find a way to handle england. But it seems like Lvn could retreat to War and cause trouble
Again, could you help me defend Ser? I'll move my fleet out of Bla to counter france
Ack, sorry about that. For the record, you are welcome and encouraged to take Sev. I would much rather you have my dots than England.
I wans't generally planning on stabbing you but to develop the theatre vs Austria I needed this position. Once I get Ser/Bud I can move out of Rum again.
It's kind of time-sensetive since F will be moving up really quick I think
(If I hadn't taken Rum I'd estimate entering a stalemate vs A while F conquers Italy and moves up on Austria
So I'm considering going for Sev or I can try to support your last stand hehe
Lol 👏
Hi Russia. Have you spoken with Germany or England yet? I’m trying to figure out what to do and it largely depends on your stance with either/both of them.
I haven't spoken to anyone quite yet! Had a lot going on personally. I'll let you know what I hear, once I hear it.
Sounds good. Let me know.
We are ever so far apart, but let's keep in touch ya (especially if you want to head Russia's way~~)
Sure, I think it would be great to keep in touch
Great ~~ sounds good
Hey England, looks like I'll be pitted against Russia for the game so if you want to work together that would be awesome
I'll definitely see what I can do -- with Russia getting into Sweden for free, that's not good for either of us
Yeah, did you talk to germany or are they just away?
I've heard from them, I think they just weren't used to the interface or something
Hm, alright. Let's hope they make up for it then
Do you have any plans to go for Stp?
I probably will, tho I think sweden'll come first
Depends on pressure of germany but taking nwy will put you adjacent to stp, forcing his hand
Yea, for sure
wow both you and france are off to great starts
Do you know what france is planning to do?
Im really not too sure, the Brest build has me kinda nervous tbh
F did have three builds. I can see why F would notwant to waste it and they kind of don't have anywhere to go but through Germany, Italy or you
Best to convince them that Germany is the right choice given the prominence of Russia & Austria
That's the plan yea -- we'll see how it goes anyways
How are things on your end of the continent?
Seems russia & austria are pretty close. I'm hoping austria will get uncomfortable being so open to a russia stab at least or their alliance falls apart.
Now the question is if that happens before or after I get waltzed over
Italy doesn't seem too competent. Not sure.
Yea lol
Russia's looking kinda scary to be honest
Their board setup is on point atm. They may have some weakness if you can get 3 fleets to Stp but that's about it
Maybe if germany wakes up
Tbh, I'm not sure Austria should allow Russia to gain more ground.
me and France should be able to hold them in north if France doesn't end up stabbing me at least, but they could definitely get out of control if Austria slips up ya
The way it's looking, we're going to have to work together against France.
What makes you say that?
Well, F wins when they get 16 centers. They will get +1 from italy, that is 12. Then Mun, Tyr are fairly easy. 14. You see where I'm getting at?
ah it's 18 actually.
Wait, isn't it 18?
yeah, sorry
I'm not saying it's an immediate thing, but something to keep in mind.
For sure 👍
Alright, I'm going for Sev. You can take War but after we should strategize what to do with france
Ok, yea
It seems F is getting ready for moving into England proper.
Yes, I am building defensively
Ok great
I'm trying to pick up the last scraps of Austria but from then on it's going to be tough fighting
Good job on the defense of the channel so far!  I'm tying down F's fleet mostly in the Mediterranean
Yep, the going's good -- do you need any support into sev or do you have that all covered?
I'm good, thanks.
Alright 👍
I'll probably swing by Gal next year for support on Vie. I'm not sure if A is going to ally with F.
Ok, that sounds reasonable to me -- if we could DMZ ukr though, I'd appreciate that
Sure, that's fine with me.
Thanks 👍
Anyways, what do you think of drawing once Austria and Russia are gone -- I don't think anyone else can get eliminated before the game ends in 1910
We really aught to get rid of Russia soon if we want to make sure they can't sneak their way into the final draw in 1910
Sure, yeah
I'll support you in then?
Alright, I've got Gal standing by
I'm so confused -- it's not like you have any real chance of eliminating me at this point
Yeah, I wasn't convinced you would support my move because we're still fighting for most centers
Well anyways, now we really have to get rid of the Russian -- I'll support you in?
And you can support yourself in too if you want to be safe I guess
Though I have absolutely zero reason to stab you at this point lol
Ok, I'll just take war -- don't tap sil and we'll be good
-- let me know if you received this ok ?
Heya
Sure let's do that.
Hey neighbors ~~
What would you say to a western triple? We'd have to be careful about it and simulate some in fighting to prevent the east from teaming up in response, but I think we can pull it off
I’m down. What did Germany say?
Sounds like their in if you are
So we doing this?
DMZ the channel?
I agree with the DMZ -- I definitely think we can pull the Western triple off
Especially with this chat format, it'll be hard for our opponents to easily coordinate an opposition
Let’s march East!
Great, glad we're on board !/
hm, so the German missed turn might complicate our choices
Let’s swoop in
Ok, yes, let's capitalize on this
Would you be ok building an army in Brest, and I'll do the same in London? Just so we keep the channel well and truly DMZd
What are we thinking for builds?
I want to build 2 fleets to hold the med. a stab here would be horrible for me. I don’t need to give you any reason to ally with Germany again. Let’s do this together my man. I think you should also build a fleet in London if it makes you feel more comfortable.
Ok, that's fair -- I think I'll hold off on the fleet in london for now; I don't think Germany is sure I'm stabbing them yet
What we thinking?
I think I'll try to get into Hel, and convoy something in in the fall? Or what do you think
Why don’t you tap Kiel and I support you in to Holland?
Oh, good idea yea
I'd go with that if you're ok with it
Wait actually, getting into Hel might be more important in the spring? Cuz we can still go for hol in the fall, and hel will help hold den and go for kie
I guess maybe we should also consider going after Russia, just cuz they're getting really strong at the moment, and if they build anything else in the north, we'll basically never have a shot at getting through later
Idk, let me know what you think
I'd take your support from lon to hol this turn if you're still ok with giving it?
with Germany's second NMR that changes things up a bit
i would feel much more comforatble putting a fleet there instead of army
i would support north sea or hel in if you want?
actually, how are you thinking we should carve germany?
do you want to take kiel and berlin and I can take holand and munich?  I can keep an army in holland to make you more comfortable.
That sounds fair to me
Should I support you in, or I should I start our attack on Russia?
Yes please. I could use the fleet in Marseilles to take the med.
Whoops
Answers you too late
That’s ok. Great job capturing st. Pete.
Next year I’ll get into holland.
Alright, sounds good to me 👍
Also what are your thoughts on builds next year? The presence of a fleet in Mao is kinda scary on my end, cuz it can always stab to Iri
but if you feel like you need it there for your own protection, I understand completely and I can just build something to sit around holding down the fort on my end
not sure about builds.  i would like another fleet in the med.  The only reason I saty in MAO is because you're in North sea.  I'm happy to move out if you will/can.
Ok, that's fair. I guess it's kind of hard for England to do much of anything without a fleet in Nth, so I guess your fleet in Mao will stay
So I'll go ahead and support you Bel→Hol then?
Tho it might also make sense to use Kiel to make sure Russia can't do Ber→Bal, Pru→Ber, cuz that could get me in some trouble I think
Anyways, let me know what you think we should go for
You could support me with North Sea unless you planned on moving outta there
Ah, I planned on using Nth to follow up into Den after taking Swe
I guess I could take Swe with Nwy tho hm
I should most likely be able to support you in this turn at least
Ok, put in the orders supporting you to Hol
???
change your mind?
oh, you wrote that after adjudication
just checking in ~~ what's up with the move back to Mao?
I only moved to North Africa to block the retreat there. I can’t leave MAO empty as long as you’re in North Sea.
ah I see, ok that makes sense
Do you have plans for the army in Bel? If not, id appreciate the support in holding Kie. Anyways, let me know what you think we should go for
Hey france, you there?
yes, i can support kiel.  i'd really like us to move out of the  the north sea and MAO this turn.  they are a useless waste of resources now.
North sea is kinda how I convoy my armies to where I need to go tho
This is kind of a weird thing to say, but I think I need to point out that this is a good opportunity to stab me from a tactical perspective;
With a a fleet build in Bre, you can keep me out of eng while walking into Lvp

That being said, I think we still have a lot to gain by working together. As we stand, we are certainly stronger than any other pair of nations, and we probably have fighting chances against the rest of the board even if they all united against us. In the near future even, you are closing in on breaking the Italian resistance, and I am close to doing the same for Russia

Divided however, I believe the victory of either of us will be much less guaranteed, what with so much of our resources focused solely on each other.
in any case , I look forward to our shared victory and hope you feel the same
I just keep being bothered by the North Sea fleet. I need to waste 2 units (one in MAO and one in Holland) to prevent a stab. You can continue to convoy via Norwegian Sea and I can use those units to push East. Can we give it a shot? I too would like to continue working together.
Also, planned on building army Paris not fleet Brest
Ok, I can move out of Nth this turn -- I'll also support you Hol→Kie if you're ok with that (I'll try to use Kie to take Ber), and that will hopefully help you take Mun as well
Ok, sounds like a plan. So we’re both on the same page, I move to med and you move to Norwegian and we’re good?
Yep, pretty much. I'm also considering moving to Nwy for now in case I need to support stp
Great work this turn, we're doing really well 👍
Ok, cool. For sure
what's the plan stan
RE: builds
Russia has several disbands so hopefully we make more progress there this year. And you can start to work on Austria once Italy is done?
Ah
I'll probably build an army
What are you thinking on you're end?
don't freak out.  My fleet Brest was built before I saw your message so I built it as a precaution.  I plan on moving it into MAO and then into the Med.  Let's carry onward.
Ok, I think I need to move den to nth so I can convoy the army over anyways, if that's ok with you
👍🏽
Whats up with the move to Eng? Are we still good?
Yes I was just worried about your move there so I did it to bounce. I’ll be moving back into MAO and building fleet Marseilles and Army Paris. We’re still good.
Alright, glad to hear it
Man why you gotta do us like that
Like it's not even a good time to stab ..
Where else are you going to go if not after me?
I have and will continue to be 100% happy to keep convoying armies onto the continent to press south from there
I have Warsaw and Sev in my sights, and I can help with Austria as well
And it's not like I think you, me or turkey will really get eliminated before 1910 -- I just want to make sure we don't have Austria or Russia hanging on
And if I have swing my focus back west, it gets harder to guarantee that
Why are you not convoying from Norwegian like we discussed?
In spring 1906 I wanted to guarantee support into  Stp
And I was also nervous cuz you built a friggin fleet in Brest -- like you can't do that and then expect me to stay out of the North sea
I would have been happy to move on out again once your fleet was gone south
Wasnt you getting your fleet out of Mao (let alone Brest) part of why I agreed to vacate Nth in the first place ~~?
Anyways, what do you think of drawing once Austria and Russia are gone -- I don't think anyone else can get eliminated before the game ends in 1910
Im up for that
Is turkey on board for the draw?
That's what they've been saying to me
Have you heard anything from them?
Alrighty
Not in a few days
Hey france, great first year!
Austria & Russia seem to have banded together so perhaps you need to be aware of that
thanks for the heads up.  do you have an ally in Italy?
No, not really. Their response has been strange and mostly aligned with Austria's. So they're probably allied
But yeah, it would be good to have an ally a bit closer
Italy's behavior just baffles me
Me too. Why would he build army??
Because they've got a lot of land to protect 😉
foolish
Now that is dealt with I think we should consider future moves
I’m always open to discussion
How we moving?
I'm not quite sure what to say at this point. We all don't want the other 2 to win.
Alright
Of course I can choose to develop north instead of west.
How can I entice you to do that?
Are you on board for a 3 way draw?
I'm confused. What is there to gain through a draw?
What is there to gain by continuing to play?
Italy, boungiorno.  Thankfully we have Switzerland as a buffer, but I wanted to reach out to see where your head was at.  Have you heard from France?  Turkey?  Austria?  Even Russia?

You and I - along with Austria, really have to watch all sides.  Depending on how initial conversations go, obviously, I'd love to have a good relationship on our border, potentially a NAP/DMZ.

I'm looking forward to hearing what you're thinking about the early game, and the game generally.

- Kaiser
No thoughts on the early game?  Information I can provide, or vice versa?  I haven't heard much from you and Austria, and I can't decide if that's bad news or I just don't matter much to your plans.
Okay, interesting first move.  I don't know if you're not talking to me, or not talking at all, but I did want to float a thought or two by you:

I don't know if you coordinated with Russia at all, and note that I'm on good terms with him.  Either way, he strikes me as an experienced player.  As such, it's weird that he would open aggressively at BOTH Austria and Turkey, don't you think?  They'd naturally see that and band together out of necessity.

No, I'm thinking he's working with Turkey, and we'll see F BLA C A Ank-Rum.  That's nothing to you - Austria dies faster, but they're grabbing the centers you bet very heavy to get.  (Congrats on that, by the way.  Always a gutsy move.)

But it's not good news for you.  Because they'll need to move quickly, so if that's happening I'd also expect F Con-AEG, most likely followed by 2 fleet builds - Con and Smy.

Tell me I'm crazy.  I hope I'm crazy, anyway.
Hey, how's it going? I'm hoping we can work together in this one. We have no reason to get in each other's way and plenty we can do together. Let me know what you think?
Hello Italy nice to make your acquaintance. I'll have to admit, I was caught off guard by your entrance into Trieste, but I think it could work out well for you. 

I would like to ask if I will be bounced if I move to VIE, and if you have any other plans for the future that might be to both of our benefit?
Bongiorno! 
Any deep thoughts on how we want the board to shape up in the early years?
D'oh, my initial Spring '01 commo I had never selected an emoji for, so it probably just sent now, a turn late 🙂
Anyway, nice aggressive opening to Trieste.  I hope you sold it ahead of time as a Key Lepanto, but either way, let's carve the Balkans quick so we can both head north and you can look to the West.
We should probably be talking by now.
Greetings Italy!

Would you be up for a DMZ in piedmont? I think it would benefit both of us if we didn't go to war rn. Looking forwards to a great game!
-France
Hey italy. You there?
Thinking of a leponto? Or hitting austria early?
Hey Italy; I don't know if you have noticed but Russia is huge rn and is about to crush both you and turkey, and then proceed to run over the rest of the map. Idk how your relationship with turkey or Italy is, but you guys really need to work together to stop Russia. You don't seem like a very talkative type but it's never to late to change...
Hello, Austria.  
Look, I'd love to be besties and all that, and maybe we'll get there.  But for now can I assume that we both have bigger fish to fry, and that we both know that attacking each other early will mean mutually assured destruction?

I'm open to a non-aggression pact, possibly with sharing information, natirally.  Outside of that, let me know what's on your mind and we'll go from there.

Best,

- Kaiser
No thoughts on the start of the game?  Any information I can share, or vice-versa?

You're pretty quiet down there...
I actually thought I'd responded sorry. I don't know why we can't be best friends. Germany does well then Austria can do well and vice versa. Not much from.my neighbours. You got anything from Italy?
Nothing from you or Italy until now.  You'll be shocked to learn that Turkey mused about how much he loves to play Germany and open to Tyrolia.  😂

Can't blame a guy for trying, I guess!

Anyway, for now I'm good with a short pact to stay out of Tyrolia (unless you've planned a bounce with Italy or something, but that would be weird ). Maybe limit it to 1901 for now?  I don't have any plans in that neighborhood, but I don't want to bind your hands if something comes up with Russia or Italy.
Tyr 1901 for me would be pretty crazy and no I don't plan for it so I'm happy to agree to it. I've got nothing from Italy either so I'll just have to play defensively there. Russia seems to be interested in opening north
I wish I could say "what can I do to help you," but I have nothing in range.

What I am doing is sowing some seeds of doubt with Italy - floating the idea that Russia and Turkey are working together, and backhandedly noting how bad it will be for him if they are, and they wipe you out quickly.

You have a best probabilistic set of moves, but the best you can realistically hope for is maybe 1 build if you go +Greece, +Serbia, -Trieste.  Maybe.

If I were you, I'd reach out to Italy.  Suggest that he take Tunis, and instead of forcing him out of Trieste, you'll take Greece and move on.  Tell him you're going to move to Trieste because it's your best move.  It is.  Request that he move to Vienna, because that's Russia's best move (it is) and you want to prevent him from getting another build.

You'd move Bud-Tri, and Ser S Alb-Gre.
Scenario 1: Italy agrees.
1a) Italy moves to Vienna, Russia moves to Vienna, Ukraine moves to Galacia.  None of those moves work and, unless Turkey and Italy are working together (or Turkey inexplicably moves Bul-Ser) you get Greece and build in Vienna.

1b) Italy moves to Vienna, Russia to Budapest.  You're in the same position, but losing Budapest instead of Trieste.

Scenario 2: Double-cross, and Italy thinks you're lying:
2a) Italy moves to Tri-Budapest and Venice-Trieste.  Russia gets Vienna if it moves there, nothing if to Budapest.
2b) Ven S Tri H, F ION - Alb (He thinks you're going to support yourself back into Vienna). You get Greece, Russia gets Vienna if it moves there, nothing if it moves to Budapest.
2c) Tri-Bud, Ven-Tyr - bounces.
Scenario 3: Double cross, Italy believes you.
3a) Tri holds, support from Venice (thought you were truthful about Bud-Tri, but left out that you were supporting yourself.  That would be incredibly stupid on your part, with Russia at your back and intentionally antagonizing Italy.  Here again, it comes down to whether Russia moves to Vienna or Budapest.)
3b) Ion-Gre, Tri-Vie, Ven-Tyr (he won't go to Trieste if he thinks you're moving there, because a bounce is as good as taking it). You still take Greece.  You end up in Trieste.  You keep all 3 home centers if Russia goes to Vienna (and +2!) or lose Budapest if he goes there (+1).

Note: if Italy is coordinating with Russia or Turkey, all this is out the window.  But in that case you're hosed no matter what.

How's that for more input than you wanted?  Sorry about that.  Anyway, rough open!  Good luck on the recovery - even selfishly, you getting beat up early is nothing but bad news for me!
I really am sorry about that spam.  I started thinking about your situation, playing it forward, and taking a couple notes, and then...

I guess at a certain point it just seemed like a shame to waste it.

🥺
Haha no worries. My fault really. Russia tells me this grand plan of going North. Throws in a weird move in his plan with Warsaw and I respond with the thumbs down, you're lying on all fronts. But then I don't play the appropriate moves to back it up. I heard nothing from Italy so assumed he'd open standard. Should've just hedgehogged but I like getting a fast start with Austria. Anyway, Russia is probably working with Italy. Still haven't heard back from them at all. At least Eng / Fra don't look friendly for you but you're going to have Russian problems pretty quickly.
Still nothing from Italy, and Russia can't build in Warsaw without breaking his NAP.  You really need to be working with Turkey - I told him the same thing.  I can put pressure on Italy by pressuring France.

But look, for transparency: if you're sunk, and I'm in position... I'm interested in eating your centers.  I won't do it unless and until you're ready to call it, though.
When you're thinking about your moves, plan on me moving to Tyrolia.  Unless he supports himself in (unlikely) I'll either bounce him or be there in the fall.  If you want to brainstorm on moves (and I can do the same with Turkey) let me know.

If you're not sure if you can trust me, consider - if you go down early, I'm sunk.  Yes, I want to be involved so I'll be in position to gobble you up so that Russia can't.  But for what it's worth I promise I will help you unless you think it's hopeless.
...and I'll be transparent about it either way.
Looks like the Cossack bit off more than he can chew.  He should be either -1 or -2 in the South this year.  From what I can see, you & Turkey can lose the guessing game with any move set except one.

Any way I can help?
To both Austria and Turkey...

In case you want to play with it, here's the sandbox:  https://www.backstabbr.com/sandbox/5637073032183808

I can't solve it.  Here's what I know:
1) we have to assume Italy is working with Russia.  So my Tyr-Tri is a lock.
2) we have to assume that Russia takes Ankara.
3) Barring very unusual moves, the only place we can possibly Rumania from is Budapest.  Exception to this is a sneaky Rum-Bul move, but that's unlikely.
4) *Almost* sure that Vienna has to hit Galacia, but depending on other moves supporting Budapest is almost as good.
Russia is friendly with Turkey now too so we can't assume ank falls although likely considering how Russia is playing.
Their play has been very weird indeed.  It looked like a classic pretend stab, then a real one, then the double support last season.  But it looked the last turn was you and Turkey working together and him getting fed up with the Russo-Turkish mess.

I'll be more careful, though.
Hello Germany, nice to make your acquaintance. 

I've been thinking about this game alot, because the fact that it will only last until 1910 really changes my strategy. Add in that no one is likely to NMR and I believe it will be near impossible to solo. 

Normally when playing Russia I try to grab a couple German centers around 1904, allowing me to hold over the stalemate line setting up a solo when I conquer the East. Since I'm not intending to solo in this game, however, it doesn't make sense to go after your centers. It would be much better for both of us, I believe, to agree to a pact of non aggression. I could even offer some help against England, if there came a time when you wished that. What do you think?
Interesting points.  I've been thinking about how the format and time limitation might change the game as well.

For transparency, England reached out to me as well, and generally I think Germany working with England is, in a vacuum, the best course.

I'm fine with a non-aggression pact, but we need to set pretty clear ground rules - I'm significantly more vulnerable than you.  Interested in each of us setting up a proposal, and see how well they match?
How about a commitment to something like the following through Spring 2003.  We can revisit or extend from there, and of course any of these are subject to specific agreement otherwise:

- Total DMZ in SIL & PRU
- No German units in BoT or LVN
- Germany concedes Sweden, but only to be occupied by fleets.
- No Russian units in BAL
- No army builds in Berlin
- No army builds in StP
- Notify before a build in WAR

What do you think?
I agree to all of those points.

Just to be clear, England is not necessarily a target of mine, but if necessary I can act as an insurance policy against English aggression for you.
By the way, for whatever it's worth I am hearing talk coming back to me that you are looking to open north.  Again, it's spring '01, so talk is pretty cheap.  But just thought I'd flag it for you.
Talk is cheap, and after Spring resolution you will see that I fully intend to abide by our agreement. 

The fact that you brought this up with me really builds trust with me. I did tell Austria that I was heading North West, but obviously that is a lie. I hope that you see it to be in your best interest to keep that confidential because I truly do intend to work with you all the way through 1910.
Well, what do you think about how the spring went?  Looks like it couldn't have gone too much better for you.  You have the drop on BOTH Austria and Turkey.

...which makes me think you don't.  You strike me as too good a player to not understand that opening heavy against both of them forces them to join forces, which means a nasty stalemate.  Therefore, I'm smelling a slingshot.

So...Con-AEG and A Bul S a Russian BLA C A Ank-Rum?  Or maybe support from Ukraine while Bul takes a shot at Greece?  Are you and Italy going to coordinate moves so you don't bounce each other?
Sorry, I missed your message, it's been a wild week at work.

I hesitate to give away too much detail, but I will be very clear in stating that I intend to focus on my Southern sphere of influence for the foreseeable future. 

It does look like you and England will likely have France cornered by 1902. England doesn't really have any where to go after that happens other than your centers and a few of mine. I just want you to know that it's critical for my sgame to have you holding back any threats coming in from the North, and I'll offer you any support that I have available in the North when necessary.
It was a very nice open for you.
It seems you'll have to focus South, what with the clear Lucy-pulling-the-football-away-from-Charlie-Brown that just occurred at the Black Sea.

Where do you plan to build?  We agreed no builds in Warsaw, and no armies in StP.  So it seems you should have a second fleet in the north to help with England?  Unless you're planning to defer.
I had toyed with asking permission for Warsaw, but after evaluating more it will be Moscow, F NC StP and Sevastopol. 

And yeah the South is chaos right now, but it's controlled chaos.
Well, we've been more or less jockeying for position, huh?  I hate to do this, but I want to give you a heads up that I have to break our agreement and end our NAP a season early.  It's not what I planned or intended, but right now this game will turn either way on a dime.  You played the beginning of the game beautifully, but gained so much so fast that you not only forced Austria and Turkey into an alliance, but England and I as well.  So much so that we let France up off the mat, too.

...and I kinda hate you for that because I really hate allying with England as Germany, and I had France absolutely wrecked.

I expect to enjoy playing this out with you either way.  And I'm fascinated to see how this fall goes in the Southeast.  What a tangled mess, both the tactics and the diplomacy!

Best,
- Kaiser
I appreciate the honesty. I would like to propose an alternative. Use this turn to get the drop on England, then you, Turkey and I can take this all the way to a three way draw in 1910. Turkey and I have been working together closely since the opening move, but we've covered it well. Turkey has the remnants of Austria and Italy to fight, and you have the West to conquer. I can help you both without putting myself close to a solo. I've shown myself to be a trustworthy Ally to you and I truly mean it when I say that I want us to have the lions share of the spoils in 1910. A three way alliance between you, Turkey and I makes perfect sense strategically.
So, I don't think that's going to happen.

I recognize the risk I run with all allies at my back, but such is the life of the Kaiser who does not eliminate at least one of France or England.

I choose to play this game with much more trust than most.  In this particular case I don't have a ton of choice in the matter.
Your Ally isn't going to be much help if they fail to enter orders. I can support you into Sweden this Fall in exchange for some minor concessions. We could probably even get you into the North Sea simultaneously.
I can't believe you didn't sniff out the Livonia convoy.  I was figuring it was a <50% chance of going through.  Or maybe it's what you wanted me to do?!?!
I was more concerned with losing Norway, to be honest. I've kind of retreated into a posture that's more defensive than it probably should be, but if you and England are going to present a United front I really can't do anything else, except to hope that A) you reconsider your alliances or B) England decides to stab you (my least preferred option)
I'd like to present another thought for you. Let's assume that you and England continue to push against me, and Turkey begins to wrap up Italy (quite possible considering that Turkey is likely to get into the Ionian this turn). 

Because I must move all units Northward to defend against E/G, I'm absolutely forced to leave my Southern border undefended. If Turkey grows to 12 or 13 centers they could easily roll up my Southern Centers and solo this whole thing.

I hope I'm not coming off as beating a dead horse here, but it makes so much sense for us to be aligned. 

1) A G/R/T Alliance can be easily balanced until 1910. 
2) I am already positioned to help you against England.
3) England's NMR means they are an unstable Ally for you, but might make it easy for you to gain their centers quickly.
4) Forcing me to defend in the North invites a Turkish solo.
5) I have already proven myself to be a trustworthy ally by abiding the agreement set forth at the beginning of the game.

I enjoy playing with you, and I really desperately want to work with you, for game and for personal reasons.
You can't reasonably have had hope to keep Norway through the year under almost any circumstances.  Even, as it turns out, with an England NMR.

You're fundamentally correct, and Italy is a wild card in this thing for sure.  And I would enjoy playing this one out with you as well.  But it might have to be smack talk.

If you're concerned about a potential continental Caliphate, show me.  Support Tyr-Tri.  I'm not saying I'm going to make that move - I might - but I'll take it as a strong sign that you're serious about us working together, and about the Turkish threat.
That was a very rough turn for you. If you want to negotiate I'm open, I could make things easier for you in the South in exchange for help against England in the North.
It was a rough turn for both of us, I think.  Given my current situation, there isn't a worse possible play for me than antagonizing England... assuming he's not already aligned with France.  He's made no move to show me that he is or isn't.

What I can do is work to make England see that if France can't be trusted, trying to force his way in through StP is a death sentence: growth will be too slow, France will have to circle back for him, and his forces will be committed to that logjam in the Northeast.

I should be able to convince him to convoy to Belgium, and that's his only army.  Should give you plenty of breathing room.  I'll try to convince him to focus on France.  Self-serving, but probably in his best interests anyway.

I'll be in touch.
I just wrote the following to England:
So that was interesting.  I'm actually not that bad off as long as France and Russia aren't coordinating, and more importantly, as long as you aren't with France.

Since clearly France can't be trusted, and obviously he'll have to come for you at some point to go for the win, maybe a convoy to Belgium is in order?  You can hold StP easily, get 2 builds, prevent France from getting any, and change the balance of power pretty dramatically.

If you really trust France you could also convoy to Holland and take a stab at crippling me permanently - he'll get +1 or +2, you'll get +2.  Though you risk bouncing with France if he gets greedy.  But if he builds, and you see a F Mar, you're in for a rough go.  If it's me, convoy to Belgium is the smarter play.  I don't even see it as a stab on your end - our alliance was three-way, and it is broken.  If you weren't in on it, it's broken for all of us.
(pt 2:)
In either case, it's probably not a great idea to try to force your way into Russia via StP.  You've got it, and can hold it easily - there's a reason it's part of the stalemate lines.  You need to grow as fast as you can, or you're just waiting for a knife.  I was waiting for Turkey to stab Russia to give you an opening.  It didn't come, so I tried to force it and opened myself.  But if Turkey stabs now he'll collapse too quickly for you to get (or at least get with any chance to defend) more than one more center.

I would strongly consider figuring out lines and conditions with Russia so you can both dedicate your forces elsewhere.  And I say that knowing that a highly likely place for Russia to dedicate forces is at me.  But since the second most likely (and possibly first) is at Turkey, which takes a partner from France, it's worth the risk.

What's on your mind?
(wrap up:)
As I look at what I just wrote, I am going to cut/paste it to Russia to facilitate discussions among the three of us.
So, by "on France's side" you mean "supporting yourself into Tyrolia," right?
Naw, it's too late.  If you had moved to Armenia, the Black Sea, and Ukraine last turn you would have suddenly been a prohibitive favorite to solo.  England isn't going anywhere, you can remove him at your leisure.  Now?  Who knows.
A Ber S Boh - Mun
F Den - Kie
A Gal - Boh
So, can we agree that we all need to put everything aside and stop Turkey?  He's 3 away from the solo...

I know I can't do much, but I can support y'all as needed and do whatever else I can.

(Sending to all remaining powers that aren't Turkey)
Would you like to work together?
Depends on what you're thinking.  As Germany, I think England makes the most sense as an ally.  Regardless of how the early game goes, I have to deal with some combination of England, France, and Russia within a few years.  France and Russia can help against England, but  not against each other, while England can help against both of the other two.

I'm definitely open to working together, but my main questions for you: what does your contact with France or Russia look like?  Are you looking for a 3-party alliance, or just two?  What's your initial vision of how this will go, especially considering the 1910 deadline?
I have reached out to France and am hoping for a three-way alliance between us. I have not spoken with Russia, and he has not spoken with me either.

I see myself going through Scandinavia and northern Russia, yourself going through southern Russia and Austria, and France will take the Mediterranean.
I'm not closed off to the possibility, but I'm not thrilled at the prospect of an alliance with both you and France.  If with you, I'd much prefer that we split Scandinavia and then you focus on the Atlantic and Med.  If you land armies in Russia...well, that makes me an easy stab, while the reverse is not even close to true.

The concern about you flowing through Russia also explains my concern with the E/G/F combo, except even more so.

I'm not trying to be contrary, but I don't have the luxury of setting my back against a wall like you do.
By the way, have you heard anything from France?
You bring up some very good points. I'm willing to team up against France.
Also, France has offered a DMZ in the English Channel.
France wants me to bounce in Burgundy, and is acting (I assume?) all upset that I might move to the Ruhr.

What if I offered you Denmark - fleet only, no convoy -  for the first season only.  I'd take it back in 1902 barring something unexpected.  But if you're in the Channel and North Sea this spring, you could convoy into France while I take Holland and Belgium.  Brest and both Iberian centers are yours.  We'll figure out Norway, Sweden, Paris, and Marsailles based on how this shakes out.

My spring would be
Kie-Hol
Mun-Ruh
Ber-Mun

Yours would be to Eng & Nth, and sit with 1 build and an army in Picardy (presumably).

What do you think?
https://www.backstabbr.com/sandbox/6203125562605568
I think that could work. Let's go for it!
The incentivized lying makes me reluctant to believe you.  But since that's true of everyone...I'm game.
Well, what do you think about how the spring went?  I wasn't psyched about the move to Picardy, but everything else in the west went fine.  Are you convoying to Pic/Brest and taking Norway/Denmark?

Austria is getting hit from all sides, which is never good for Germany, and Russia has the drop on both Austria and Turkey.  I'm on good terms with him (to protect my backdoor) with a short NAP, but if he gets a quick jump it could be trouble.

I was originally thinking you should convoy to France, but I'm wondering if that's a long term problem.  You might want to convoy to Norway.  I'm not trying to say what's best for you, just thinking about the mid- to long-term picture.

Definitely would like to hear your thoughts.
Also, one other thought:
Russia and Turkey may be working together.  I haven't talked to them yet, but I'd be very unsurprised to see Con-AEG and A Bul S a Russian BLA C A Ank-Rum.

If they're not working together, that means Russia opened hostile to BOTH Austria and Turkey, which is crazy because it basically forces them to band together.  I might warn Italy...
What are you thinking for the fall?
I was looking at his board, and all I could think was that he *has* to have a build.  That means he has to cover Brest & take Portugal/Spain.  So you should be able to convoy to Picardy.

I think.
That sounds good to me. I will do  that.
So...three builds for the Cossack.  This may be a problem.  He approached me about making sure that I fend you off.  That was interesting, since all we have is a non-aggression pact.  But note that part of our deal was that he can't build in Warsaw.  That means you'll probably see F StP/nc.  I'm going to build a fleet to make sure we don't lose control of Scandinavia.

You may need to focus north more than planned.  I'm not looking to take any more than Demark, and I'm not going to break my NAP, but I can get into Denmark and the Baltic and lock him down.
I haven't heard anything else from France, but if I don't help Austria this is going to be a very short game.  We're 2 turns in and Austria and Turkey are both on the mat.  They can slow Russia down if they work together - and it looks like they will - except Italy is making that a problem.

I'm hamstrung by my NAP.  I need to pressure Italy to help Austria.  I was planning on doing it through France, but that will be far too slow.  Tyrolia?  Likely bounce, but it may buy some time.

How do you want to handle France?  Dibs on Paris and Marsailles.  We can't let him up off the mat, but if you can't absorb Russian attention we're sunk.

I'm planning F Kie-BAL and A Ber-Kie, then lock up Denmark no matter what.  But these next couple moves have to be perfect.
Ehhh, I'm not sure what I'm going to do with that fleet, actually.  Let me think about it and let you know.  Open to input.

By the way, if you're thinking of teaming up with Russia (or already have, said Germany, looking at the build in the Irish Sea) look at the board.  He has a clear path to a solo, and can cross the stalemate lines at StP right now, so they're of no concern.  He already has you 2-1 in the north, and Turkey and Austria will both be Russian by the end of 1903.

He told me he's not looking to solo because it'd be too hard to do with the 1910 limit.  With a big early jump, the smart money says that thought turns into seeing it as a challenge.
Can you please have your A Pic S Bel-Bur?
NM about that either, actually.  Nothing is quite right yet.
Yeah, I'm not entirely sure what to do at the moment. Russia contacted me about leaving each other alone, so the fleet in stp is somewhat of a surprise. I'm thinking I move from eng to nth and moving  lvp to iri.  I'm willing to support bel to but if you change your mind about that. We're in a tough position, though.
I know it's late.  But if you bump Paris and move Eng-MAO you assure Brest in the fall, since I can move to Paris to break any support.
France just contacted me. He believes that we should all work to stop the obviously powerful Russia. He suggested working with you to get pic south, but I don't think that will work very well. Do you have any ideas?
What I think you should do is move Eng to Nth, convince Germany to let you move Bel(you wouldn't be taking it though, just moving through), and then convoy Bel to Nwy where you could really fight russia - from France
What do you think about that plan?
I've been talking with France.  As I said, I'd like to walk away from him.  Give him the Iberian, recommend that he build to go to the Med.
As you know, I have my suspicions that you're working with Russia.  Nature of the game.

So I'm not psyched about having you waltz through Belgium in a position to support a hold or misorder or even move to Holland.

That said, I'm open to some very fast brainstorming.
That's understandable. Something else we might do is destroy my unit in pic so I could build an additional fleet, but that wouldn't be viable until the fall.
I prefer doing that in the Fall, yes.  It puts us all a turn behind when he has a second fleet in the North already.
A Bel - Ruh
A Ber - Kie
F Hol - HEL
F Kie - BAL
A Mun - Tyr
So do you want me to move to bel so that I can convoy?
Sure.  *Gulp*
Alright. Placing my orders.
Right.  Don't forget to save.  🙄
Good stuff.
I'm retreating to ska so we can take swe.
I didn't like that at first, but after further consideration, I do.  You're not going to be convoying anywhere just yet.  I'm thinking you stay in Belgium, but support Hel-Den from the North Sea and have F SKA S BAL C Kie-Swe?  The only way he stops that is...if he  has Norway supports Sweden holding, I think?  Or uses Sweden to support Norway to SKA, I guess.  But in that case he still loses Sweden, and you retreat to BAL.
If we didn't need the centers so badly I'd convoy to Livonia anyway.
Yup.  Okay, gotta run now.
I think something that would work better is if you took SWE with BAL. That way I could break the support in NWY with NTH, and you could take DEN with either HEL or KIE. What do you think about that?
Hmm.  He knows he can't save Sweden, so he may be resigned to losing it.  Assume that's true, and also that he doesn't think we'll bother to support into Norway because we can't take it.  What does he do?
I desperately want to convoy, but it's fall, so if he gets a build it will be...not futile, but less impactful.

Right now in the South he's -1 in Austria.  He's facing a guessing game on whether he'll be -2 there, but most likely he'll be -2 in the area and +1 in Turkey.  Then +1 in Norway to offset.

I don't see any way he gets a build.

That being the case, the value of A Lvn is far more than a build for me and a disband for him.  Both of us will be even, as will he.  But A Lvn demands 3 units to defend.  It cripples him in the Balkans, and since I can break his support from StP we lock down all of Scandinavia next year.
Alright, let's do that then. You convoy to lvn, and I support hel to den.
So...

England
A Bel H
F NAO - NWG
F NTH S HEL - Den
F SKA S HEL - Den

Germany
F BAL C Kie - Lvn
F HEL - Den
A Kie - Lvn

?
Yes, that works great.
Cool.  Done.
I only have a thumbs-down option on one of my messages... reposting:
That assures Denmark, and the only real risk is that he moves Swe S Nor SKA, and StP-Nor.  Very unlikely that he's going to risk not getting Norway, though.
Anyway, done.  Now to figure out what to do with Tyrolia and Ruhr...
I was wrong, and you were right.  We have to take Sweden.  It's a long shot for Turkey and Austria to be able to offset him taking Norway, and an army in Lvn isn't going to be much good if he can build.
https://www.backstabbr.com/sandbox/5538733581926400

I think that's the winner.
You lose Norway, gain Sweden and Belgium.
I lose Belgium, gain Denmark.
Russia gains Norway and Ankara, loses Sweden, and Budapest.
Austria gains Budapest, loses Serbia
Turkey gains Serbia, loses Ankara.

You get one build, all else washes.
I thank you for your offer to support me into Sweden, this way I'm still in BAL and in position to convoy from Kiel or head to Munich, plus my fleet in Denmark is there to close the deal in Scandinavia.  You could send your other fleet to NWG, BAR, or swing south to help in the med.  We'll have 4 fleets to secure NWY/Sweden, and an army on the way to force his army to pull away.

...as long as he can't get a build.
Check my thinking, and send other ideas.
Your thinking sounds good to me. The only question is do you want swe or do you want me to have swe?
I can support myself into Denmark and ensure I don't need to disband.  I'll take Sweden when you take Norway next year?
BTW, I like France, but he's a threat to stab with nowhere to grow.  Which is the other reason I'm suggesting that you take Sweden - just in case Belgium.
Just updated & saved:
F BAL S SKA - Swe
F HEL - Den
A Kie S HEL - Den
A Ruh - Mun
A Tyr - Tri

As long as you bump Norway and move Hel-Swe, we should be good.
Alright, sounds good.
Russia is reaching out to me about turning on you.  I assume the reverse is also true.  Don't buy it.

The reality is that he's totally on the ropes right now.  Scandinavia is lost to him, and with France and I starting to pressure Italy and Austria about done, Turkey is already matching his 7 centers and in a much better position both to grow and to stab.

I misread the Turkey relationship - alarm bells were going off, but that was a helluva lot of trust for a game that is (supposedly?) blind.  Given that I'm not confident that it *is* blind, we have to assume that they're acting as one power.

All of which is just a mush of thoughts, but I want to pass them to France as well to spur discussion.  I don't want him to feel left out and get antsy.  Especially when he has to build at Brest.
Russia actually hasn't spoken to me. Not since the beginning of the game.
Ideas on what I should build? I'm thinking fleet in edi.
Okay, so this year we need to lock Norway down, ideally with a British army, make sure France is fully on board, figure out what's up with Italy, and penetrate east.

I think the clearest thing is that you take Norway in the Spring, and from Sweden.  He can't stop it, and with my Den-SKA he's left only with a retreat to BAL.

You'd then need to get the army in there in the fall.  We position in the spring and do the same with a convoy in the fall as well.  But to do that you need to stay in Sweden, which isn't a good use of a fleet - as it stands, Italy can legitimately be in the channel by winter.
Alright, I'll attack nwy with swe and support from my fleets. Next phase I can convoy from Bel.
If you can, I think you should move to ska so that his unit gets destroyed.
I'm moving to SKA, but my guess is that he'll retreat to BAL.  He might disband anyway, but I doubt it.
F BAL C Kie - Lvn
F Den - SKA
A Kie - Lvn
A Mun - Sil
A Tyr S Mar - Pie
You are there, right?  I get that it didn't affect much that you hung out on your party barges near the North Pole, but we really need that convoy to Norway, along with vacating Sweden.

Are we good?
I entered my orders and made sure I updated them. I'm not entirely sure what happened. I'll convoy this phase.
Okay.  I'm taking Sweden, though.

Maybe we sell it as a stab?  I'll bump StP, or take it if he gives up on Norway and moves that army.
France needs a build.  How do you feel about giving up Belgium? we
F BAL - Swe

A Lvn - Stp

A Mun - Sil

F SKA S BAL - Swe

A Tyr S Pie - Ven
...unless I hear otherwise.
Sounds good
Sweden is yours next year - apologies for the miscalculation.

It will be interesting to see where Russia disbands.  He either is open to one of us, or just *begging* for Turkey to smell the solk and stab.
I was thinking something like:
F Fin - Stp/sc
F NTH - Nwy
F NWG - BAR
A Nwy S Fin - Stp/sc

Germany:
A Lvn - Mos
A Mun/Ber ?
A Sil - Gal
F SKA - Den
F Swe - BOT
A Tyr S Mun - Boh

This gets a fleet into StP instead of an army, but it's a lock rather than a hope.  I'd leave Sweden in the fall if that move doesn't succeed...and start scrambling to protect my home centers.

What do you think?
That sounds good to me!
No, I think that's broken because of the disband and build.  I'll give it some thought, and I'd welcome your thoughts.
Well, I like the moves you have for me, except the f nth - nwy, that would disrupt my attack, so I was thinking f nth s nwy.  I also like the moves you gave planned out for yourself. So whatever you want to change, let me know what you're doing and I'll tell you what I think.
So that was interesting.  I'm actually not that bad off as long as France and Russia aren't coordinating, and more importantly, as long as you aren't with France.

Since clearly France can't be trusted, and obviously he'll have to come for you at some point to go for the win, maybe a convoy to Belgium is in order?  You can hold StP easily, get 2 builds, prevent France from getting any, and change the balance of power pretty dramatically.

If you really trust France you could also convoy to Holland and take a stab at crippling me permanently - he'll get +1 or +2, you'll get +2.  Though you risk bouncing with France if he gets greedy.  But if he builds, and you see a F Mar, you're in for a rough go.  If it's me, convoy to Belgium is the smarter play.  I don't even see it as a stab on your end - our alliance was three-way, and it is broken.  If you weren't in on it, it's broken for all of us.
In either case, it's probably not a great idea to try to force your way into Russia via StP.  You've got it, and can hold it easily - there's a reason it's part of the stalemate lines.  You need to grow as fast as you can, or you're just waiting for a knife.  I was waiting for Turkey to stab Russia to give you an opening.  It didn't come, so I tried to force it and opened myself.  But if Turkey stabs now he'll collapse too quickly for you to get (or at least get with any chance to defend) more than one more center.

I would strongly consider figuring out lines and conditions with Russia so you can both dedicate your forces elsewhere.  And I say that knowing that a highly likely place for Russia to dedicate forces is at me.  But since the second most likely (and possibly first) is at Turkey, which takes a partner from France, it's worth the risk.

What's on your mind?
As I look at what I just wrote, I am going to cut/paste it to Russia to facilitate discussions among the three of us.
Are you still willing to work together? I never intended to use you as a meatshield, and hoped to remain allies with you to the end. Once I have Scandinavia locked down (which should be shortly) I will begin to redirect forces to assist you against France.
I've got no problem with that.  I can make things tricky for awhile, I think.  I haven't actually looked at the adjudication, though.
So, can we agree that we all need to put everything aside and stop Turkey?  He's 3 away from the solo...

I know I can't do much, but I can support y'all as needed and do whatever else I can.

(Sending to all remaining powers that aren't Turkey)
Yes, that's the case
I'm moving lvn to pru. You should support this move, as well as defend yourself in bur. This is to help prevent the ottoman advance.
I was thinking A Ber - Sil
F Kie - BAL

with

F BAL - BOT
F Nwy - Stp/nc
F Pru S Stp - Lvn
A Stp - Lvn

and

A Hol - Ruh
A Mun - Boh
A Pie - Tyr
F Tun S TYS - ION
A Tus - Rom
F TYS - ION

I think Munich is safe no matter what happens (except if he vacates Bohemia).
St Petersburg is most likely locked down.
He expects you to move to Venice.  My guess is that he'll support himself on.  Let him.  You'll either slide into Rome or stop his fleet from doing the same.
Your fleet in TYS is protected.
I get to build an army, which should be the nail in the coffin of his chances to take a centre north of Switzerland.

Thoughts?
That sounds good to me
Can you defend Prussia?
Bal defend bur and all else defend min?
Mun*
Works for me.  I was hoping to get Munich back to close the game out, but...
You could talk to France about that, but it doesn't really matter. You're still alive and that's the important thing.
Would have been easy to do last turn.  A little harder now...
Hello down there, Sultan!

Anything we need to talk about early, or should we just see what happens early?

Best,

- Kaiser
Eh, I have the luxury of a boring country that CAN chill out and see how things shake out. 
And as much as I personally enjoy opening to Tyrolia as Germany, other people tend to look at me weird if I suggest it, so...I guess all I can really five into is to ask that you give me a heads up if you decide to pick a fight with a mutual neighbor so I can pile on
So, you were going for the Slingshot Juggernaut, and had the rug pulled out, huh?  That hurts.  And Austria is in no position to provide much help.

What's the plan from this point?
My hands are tied with my positioning and an NAP that runs through the end of this year, but I'm happy to work as an intermediary with you and Austria to help coordinate.

I've given you one bit of help - Russia can't build in Warsaw, so it takes one unit out of the South.
Ugh, what a pain in the ass. I can't even rotate on him in a meaningful time frame, and Austria's going to be no help any time soon beyond protecting Bulgaria this turn.
You could take him down together, unless he's working with Italy.  Even if he's not, Italy's going to feed on Austria - he's pretty committed - and come after you since you're exposed.  The upside is just that they wouldn't likely be explicitly helping each other.

I don't have anything preventing me from going at Italy, and he's really wrecking everything right now.  Plus, silent.  As far as I know, towards everyone.
Let me know how I can help.  Looks like you have one set of moves that assures winning the guessing game,..
Yes, Italy's silent. It's frustrating. 
If I make it through this turn, should be all good, though. Looks like y'all have Russia pretty well stopped in the North
I'm sandboxing the mess you guys have down there.  Here's the thing: Russia is going to add a center in the north, and he can't get a build.  So y'all need to have him net no better than -1 down there.  Since we have to assume he's going to take Ankara, you need to take two centers in Austria/Balkans.

I think I have a solution, but I need to stress test.  It will need my Tyr for sure.  I'll be in touch with both of you soon.
Are we looking at the same game?  If you and England coordinate, you're guaranteed to deny him a build up north, as you can force  Sweden.
Yes, but until I worked through the stuff down hear that's not what we were going to do, which is the reason it was so critical.  As long as he wouldn't be able to build we would temporarily pass on Sweden for stronger position.  Him building makes it not a stronger position.  And so...
Man, nothing look a good convoy to Livonia to wreck someone's day.
I was sure he'd smell it and counter.  I was floored to see it go through.
He's been struggling a bit with tactics this game. Honestly, that was part of the reason I was so willing to accept his offer of an out-of-the-gate Juggernaut.
I'm not sure I believe that...
*shrug*  No worries, just making small talk.  I do like your position now, though.
I didn't mean that as hostile, and I only meant the first part.  He's either been really good or really lucky from what I've seen.
He got pretty lucky in the opening - some of the tactical discussions have been questionable.  OTOH, there's the other really important fact that I've actually had discussions with him - total freaking radio silence from England and Italy, and not much more than that from France or Austria.  This has been a really non-talkative board for the most part.
Italy has spoken to no one as far as I've heard.  England isn't very talky.  France is, but we've had less to talk about, really.  I had to convince him that moving to MAO and leaving Spain open was the smart play just now, and of course it took some convincing that I was going to just walk away from the blitzkrieg lines I opened up with.  That's probably natural.
Probably - and he does seem to be fairly committed to the Med at this point.  Me tapping Tri instead of doing the army rotation I actually wanted to do might actually help convince him to keep going, as it means he's going to end up winning the race for Italian dots if he pushes on.  You look in pretty good shape, to be honest - France moving mostly away from you, all kinds of position on Russia, and an England prone to not moving, you're pretty much all opportunity right now 🙂
My back door is open, I need to get France a build, and we have a serious problem controlling the Atlantic.

Hey, want to support me into Trieste?
Ugh, you would hit that right as I was crashing. Let me wake up and check map.
I'm not saying I necessarily want to move to Trieste.  But Italy is a problem for everyone right now, just in terms of resolution.  And the radio silence.
Right-o. We do need to take the random element off the board. 
Not out of the question, my only hesitation is that it further accelerates what send to be your massive breakout opportunity here - doesn't look like you need a lot of help ballooning up to monster size right now. Otoh, your borders are kinda brittle at the moment until you get a couple builds in.
Yes.  All that is true.

Hey, speaking of ballooning out to monster size, you had a nice year.

...just sayin'.
Since you're on to Italy anyway, any chance you want to take Trieste?
I did, but that will is almost dry. And, yes, I'm happy to take Trieste. Given the current positions, if nothing else changes, at most I get one Italian for after that, so next build (Trieste?) Is probably time to turn North. I assume that works well for you, too.
Is Russia willing to support you in?
I believe so, yes.
Don't suppose I could convince you to dive for either Vienna or Warsaw as I'm covering the other two?
How you doin'?
Awesome.  Can I help you with anything that doesn't result in me sacrificing the game?
BTW, I marked that I believed your message, but in all honesty I don't think you actually *care* about how I'm doing.  Just sayin'.
Hey, I'm an empathetic guy :)
Seriously just checking in, making sure nobody's interested in throwing a spite-solo
All set on my end.  Good lookin' out, though.
Good morning, France.

I wanted to reach out to you to see where your mind is at initially.  I also wanted to let you know up front that, unless something changes, I will be moving to Ruhr.  I'm not worrying about Belgium at this point, but I do want to ensure that I have Holland locked down.  Most importantly, this isn't intended as hostility towards you.

With that out of the way, what's going on so far?  Have you heard from Italy, England, or Russia?  What are you hoping for early?
Checking back in with one more question: would you prefer to plan a stand-off in Burgundy?  I'm not excited about it, but I'm open to it.
Hi Germany! 

Bounce in Burgundy sounds good. But your move to Ruh... idk, not really liking that. Holland is guaranteed to you winter 1901 no matter if you have Ruh or not. The main reason you would move it there in 1901 would be to take Belgium, and then move in on me. It feels pretty anti-france. Hopefully we can work something out, and maybe even arrange an alliance against England? About that, have you heard anything from them? I havn't. 

Looking forwards to a good game! -France
Yes, England reached out to me, and asked if I was interested in an alliance of the three of us.  I told him I wasn't, as that rarely ends well for Germany.  I told him I was definitely interested in allying with one of you, but not both.

I'm not a big fan of a bounce in Burgundy.  It's kind of a fear maneuver that puts both of us behind overall.  It's nice on your end, since it functions as your defense and frees up Marsailles.

Speaking of Marsailles - nothing from Italy?  I haven't heard from him yet.
What would the rest of S01 look like with the Burgundy bounce?
So... what are you going to do about ruhr? The rest of S01 really depends on where we want this to go. Do you want a full on alliance against england or just an agreement of DMZs and who gets what territories.
Nothing from italy...
If you don't want to do a bounce where would munich go? I'm planning on moving to burgundy, because I don't really have anywhere to move it in the spring, and I don't 100% trust you.
It's probably best that you don't 100% trust me.  That's kind of the game we play - we trust those we shouldn't, and doubt those we should trust.

I'm moving to Ruhr, which isn't considered to be anti-France generally.  Holland isn't garaunteed to me unless I pass on Denmark.  Moving to the Ruhr (or successfully to Burgundy, which I assume you wouldn't like) is the only way to ensure Holland without F-Kie-Hol.  If you're moving to Burgundy that will pretty much cast the die, I guess.

Honestly, if you haven't heard from Italy you might take that as a cue to be nervous.  He has every reason to want to come to an agreement with you.

You still haven't heard from England either?
Enland isn't talking that much. They have communicated to me about an alliance with you, but I feel like they arn't that involved in this game and wouldn't be a good ally. For this reason I think we should work together to take them out
I thought you were going to bounce me... oh well. I know I'm in Bur rn and that is generally considered an  anti-german position, but I don't really want to fight you, since I have my hands full w/ England.  Do you want to try to take out England? I could support Ruh into belgium if you were willing to support me sometime in the future
I said I was moving to Ruhr.  How could I have moved to Burgundy as well?  Not only did I say I was moving to Ruhr, I said that it wasn't considered to be an anti-Frencb move, and that if you moved to Burgundy, the die would be cast.

I'm a little surprised that was somehow unclear...
Look, I opened the game gunning for you, which was nothing more than a strategic choice.  I actually was kind of bummed about it - you seem more into the game and more talkative, both of which I like.

But things change.  Looking around, Russia - with whom I have a NAP expiring in the fall - is about to crush Austria and Turkey at once, which will makd him essentially unstoppable.  Based on the build in the Irish Sea, England is certainly not preparing to box him in up North, never mind pressure him.  He may be working with him.  As far as I can tell, Italy isn't talking to anyone, but jumped on Austria as well.  I need Austria to provide some resistance at the very least, and so do you.  You run the risk of losing without ever engaging with your conqueror.  To me, that's always the worst way to lose.
Let's talk, and soon.  You got a build, and still have Spain there for a second.  If we can make peace, you can dig in.

Italy is the key to this, IMO.
Ok
I’m busy but can we work this out in like a few hours
Sure.
Ah! So close to adjudication. Ok are you there?
Turns out yes, but not for too long
I agree that we need to stop Russia. I can't really directly contact him much but I will reach out to England/Austria/Italy.
Okay...

Anything else?
Well, what are you going to do?
Germany... I understand you want me to help with this russia thing but the truth is your a lot closer to russia than I am and frankly I can't completely trust that you won't attack me'
That's what I'm trying to figure out.  What I want to do is move to Tyrolia, you move to Marsailles and the Piedmont, and we make sure Britain can't stay on the continent.

But my default course, since we haven't been able to connect, is to come at you hard and make sure I get my builds on my back door.
...tough spot.
Well, I would like that as well. But it definitly requires an element of trust.
Agreed.  My plan and my order set was to attack you.  It's the most obvious course.
Are you going to?
Let me ask you.  Assume my moves were tactical, and that the strategically correct thing is to walk away right now.

Big leap of faith for both, but especially for you.

That said, look back and you'll see that I've done nothing but deal straight with you.
Tell me you're in, and that you'll move Bur-Mar (then to Pie) and I'll believe you, make the leap of faith, and order Mun-Tyr.  Support me in Belgium in case England double crosses.  I'll move to the North Sea.
I'm willing to do it; of course it probably isn't a good move in the short term, as I don't completely trust you... but nobody is going to win in the short term, either. So yes, I would do it. But I can't support you in belgiam since I'm moving Bur... but anyways, I actually think you should work with englnad and let them move to Bel, where they could convoy away next turn to Nwy which would really be a pain for russia(which would be good for us)
Your going to have to talk to england about that last part, I told them and they said they were on board but you guys need to work it out
He already reached out to me.   Working on it.
Cut/paste:
A Bel - Ruh

A Ber - Kie

F Hol - HEL

F Kie - BAL

A Mun - Tyr
ok
...and you'll support my move back to Belgium in the fall from Picardy?
So you want me to move to Pic?
Where's holland going?
But yes, I will support you back into Bel
HELgoland Bight.
Hmm. So i'm assuming that means Eng-Nth, for the convoy, right
Bal isn't the best spot...
But not really that many other options.
I think that's the idea, yes.  He floated popping his A Pic, but that puts us way behind.
Bal is perfect.  Fall is A Kie-Den, the. A Den-Livonia.
The army in Nwy will be amazing 😍 if it works
Ok. But it's going to trigger alarms for Russia. You don't have to do it right away.
Russia might try for Den this turn
Right.  That's Spring '03.  It's pretty late for dancing around.  Look at Austria and Turkey.  They're toast.
I can take Den back.  I have three units on it.
Ok, sure
Well, I hope all goes well.
England says he's placing orders now.  Mine are placed/saved.

Yeah, me too.  *Gulp*
Ooh, got a message from austria. Says russia isn't talking and turkey is working w/ russia
Turkey isn't.  Just got bit on a fake slingshot Juggernaut.  See the convoy across the black sea that didn't happen?
Sry. Meant italy is working w/ russia
typo
This worked out good.
Italy helped austria get russia
Oh.  I suspected that, but couldn't get my hands around it.  Austria told me that he suspected, but had no evidence.  I haven't heard from Italy at all, and everyone has said the same to me.
Yup.  Okay, gotta run now.
Same here. Italy is mute. Looks like I won't be getting Spain either
Ok. Nice work. Talk tmrow
Why are you not getting Spain?  A Mar S MAO-Spa/sc is a lockdown.

Personally I'd be more worried about doing that and seeing F WES-MAO.  But then, life's a gamble.  Plus, with Austria in the Ionian and me in Tyrolia, I'm not sure he'll be going on distant explorations right now.  You might even consider skipping the support.  Run F MAO-Spa/SC and A Mar-Pie.  Not the safest, but it has a certain swagger to it.  And, sadly, I'm not above that being a tiebreaking factor.  🤨
Thoughts on the Fall?  Spain, I assume.  Nice break that Austria's in the Ionian, which should open up a path for you.

I'm not sure what to do with my A Ruhr, and I'm open to suggestions.  If you do end up supporting from Mar, how do you feel about Tyr-Pie?  I'm not saying I'll do it, but it's an option.  Not a great option, but still.
Mar to piedmont definitly
Tyr could support that move or try for Viena, triest, or venice
I would probably move Ruh to kiel. There arn't really any great options. If england turns on you, you *might* be able to get denmark back, and from kiel you can always convoy.
Or you could move to munich where you have  access to a lot of stuff.
ANy thoughts on what I could do with Paris? Rn i'm thinking 
A Bur - Mar
F MAO - Spa/sc
A Mar - Pie
ANd then Paris could go to Burgundy, could hold, could move to gascony, or could move to picardy and then we could work out a convoy and basically send it anywhere
Which of those do u lke?
As much as I'd love to see you in Piedmont, you risk missing a build from Spain unless you support yourself in.
Hmm, ok, so say you move to piedmont. What next? Also what do u think about paris?
Not sure about Paris.  Piedmont will be open in the Spring - with me in Tyrolia Italy needs his A Ven in the east.
Russia is reaching out to me about turning on you.  I assume the reverse is also true.  Don't buy it.

The reality is that he's totally on the ropes right now.  Scandinavia is lost to him, and with France and I starting to pressure Italy and Austria about done, Turkey is already matching his 7 centers and in a much better position both to grow and to stab.

I misread the Turkey relationship - alarm bells were going off, but that was a helluva lot of trust for a game that is (supposedly?) blind.  Given that I'm not confident that it *is* blind, we have to assume that they're acting as one power.

All of which is just a mush of thoughts; I shared them with England as well to spur discussion.  By the way, what are your plans at this point?  You need to get into the Med in a hurry, of course.  Britain may be able to bring a fleet around to help after the next year or so.  I've got an army I'm able to dedicate, kinda - I'm expecting a push west from Warsaw now.
Hi germany. Sorry for the late response. I had too much fun on the weekend.
Can you suppport me into Pie?
Italy's fleet in Wes is a real pain. I'm going to just need to guess where they are going
I'll support to Pie.  Move to MAO, with someone moving to Gas and to Mar. You can take back Spain if he slips in, but prevent all sorts of other nonsense if he gets to MAO.  We also need to get you a build if for another fleet.  Else maybe pop an army so you can build.
F BAL C Kie - Lvn
F Den - SKA
A Kie - Lvn
A Mun - Sil
A Tyr S Mar - Pie
You're covering MAO?
Yes
A bre - gas
A bur - Mar
A mar - Pie
A par - bur
F spa/sc - MAO
We both need builds.  I'll try to support you into Venice.  It *probably* won't work, but there's a shot.  Turkey is heading to the Ionian and it makes sense that he might team up with Russia to take it, which would let my support go through.

I could take it, but it takes me out of position, whereas you'd be able to get Mar through to Pie as well.  On the other hand, I'm assured of taking it, and you can take Belgium - England is vacating.

Let me know what you think.
F BAL - Swe

A Lvn - Stp

A Mun - Sil

F SKA S BAL - Swe

A Tyr S Pie - Ven

...unless I hear otherwise.
sounds good
A Bur - Bel
A Gas - Spa
A Mar - Pie
A Pie - Ven
F Spa/sc - MAO
Thanks.  Are you communicating with Britain as well?
Hey, can I assume those builds will float?  You're racing Turkey, and he has a nice head start...
Talking a bit with England. Builds will float ofc 😝
Well, one of them I guess.

I have to say, you guys are both making me pretty nervous right now.
Oops. I had sent you a message before explaining that but ig I forgot to press one of the  emojis so it didn't send
But yeah sorry about that, I had put that in as my orders and then forgot to change them
Hopefully you don't take that too agressivly... I wont' move them towards you. I'm going to push everything I have at italy
Hey Germany,
Everybody vastly overreacted, worrying that I was going to go for the solo, since I had 11 centers. Even though I clearly wasn't going to, literally EVERYONE teamed up against me, reducing me to 9. And frankly, I wouldn't be surprised if the attack continued.  Meanwhile, turkey has gotten 12 centers, and is in a great position—Russia is exposed, and they are likely going to break through my defenses as well. It's more than likely that turkey is going for the solo. Just saying—if turkey wins, it's because all of u guys were selfish and ignored the bigger threat at hand. On that note, I hope turkey doesn't win, and that we can come together to stop them(much like you did to me). BTW I am sending this message to everybody. Hopefully we can work together to stop turkey
So, can we agree that we all need to put everything aside and stop Turkey?  He's 3 away from the solo...

I know I can't do much, but I can support y'all as needed and do whatever else I can.

(Sending to all remaining powers that aren't Turkey)
Ha, I already did that but not too you because of how puny you are 😵
...and Russia, then?
Because it seems you're running out of potential allies.
Hey, I think we can agree that we need to take whatever measures possilble to stop Turkey from getting one more supply center. We just need to last one more year, and I think with some communication it might be possible. Please support me from Burgundy into munich.
Im also attacking venice and rome
I told england to support you in your territores, as Englands centers will not be taken but yours very possible might be.
This game is probably over, but we need to try
I legitimantly think we can stop turkey from getting one more center. Support me hold in munich, and I will attack Tyr, which means that I keep munich no matter what.  I'm making a play on rome, and may get that. Turkey doesn't have enough force to take any centers(berlin or Stp)
What about:
I was thinking A Ber - Sil
F Kie - BAL

with

F BAL - BOT
F Nwy - Stp/nc
F Pru S Stp - Lvn
A Stp - Lvn

and

A Hol - Ruh
A Mun - Boh
A Pie - Tyr
F Tun S TYS - ION
A Tus - Rom
F TYS - ION

I think Munich is safe no matter what happens (except if he vacates Bohemia).
St Petersburg is most likely locked down.
He expects you to move to Venice.  My guess is that he'll support himself on.  Let him.  You'll either slide into Rome or stop his fleet from doing the same.
Your fleet in TYS is protected.
I get to build an army, which should be the nail in the coffin of his chances to take a centre north of Switzerland.

Thoughts?
Ok, these moves are good. But most of this doesn't even matter, because this is the last season before the hard cap. Right now my orders are the same as the ones you said, but Munich is holding. It makes more sense, because if I got into Boh, I would lose Munich.
But...what if he has Boh support a move to Munich from one of the other two?  You're equally sunk.

You're right, of course.  That is the one scenario that's a problem.  It's just that I think it's the least likely - far less likely than Boh providing the support for an attack.  That's because we don't have a unit adjacent to Bohemia, so we can't break the support.

Unless you're going to double support Munich, we have to do it this way.  Elsewise, if he double supports (with one support from Boh) we're toast, and we have no way to know which of the supports we should hit.
Yeah, which is why I think berlin should support munich.
Play it out.

Berlin supports Munich Hold.
Piedmont to Tyrolia.

Turkey:
Tyr-Mun
Boh s Tyr-Mun
Sil s Tyr-Mun [or] s War-Pru [or] something else.

Munich is lost, and there are armies in 2 of Trieste, Venice, and Rome.  Probably those last two (convoy from Alb).
I think the chance that Tyr moves to Mun is less of a risk Mun moving to Boh
Possibly.  Everyone's different.

If you were him, your move would be to move the one unit that can support without risk of being broken?  Bohemia is definitely, definitely going to support.  If he puts everything into taking Munich we can't stop him.  But as long as Russia doesn't move to Burgandy we can make him pay, and have it back for the last fall turn.

If he takes it from Tyr or Sil, you retreat to Burgandy and between us we have armies in Ruh, Bur, and two of Ber, Tyr, or Sil, right?
If he tries to take it from Boh, he fails, and we have all of those except Mun instead of Bur.  If he moves Boh somewhere else, Munich falls to any move from Sil or Tyr, but we're in an even better position - we're in Boh now, with position both on Munich and Vienna.
Ok, you convinced me
Which almost certainly means that I'll be catastrophically wrong, of course.
You'll be wanting to retreat to burgundy now.
Tsk tsk, I told you I was right
What are you thinking for moves?
The result of being wrong was better my way, and you would have lost it either way.

Haven't looked yet.  At a glance it looks pretty tough to screw it up, though.
I’m going to bed soon and won’t have too much time in the morning, so if u have ideas sooner is better
Sorry
F Bre
A Bur - Mun
A Ruh S Bur - Mun
F Tun S TYS - ION
A Tus - Ven
A Tyr - Boh
F TYS - ION'
Why didn’t you place moves?
Germany? Now isn't a good time to be zoning out.
Was a little tied up at work.  Then with finding whoever came up with the concept of a "code freeze" and torturing them.

In fairness, not much I could have done or not done would have mattered.
Anyway, how do you feel about helping me to finish up the game holding my home centers?
Nah.  Would have worked in the Spring, but there's no good way to do it at this point...
F Bre - Par
A Mun H
A Pie S Tus - Ven
A Ruh S Mun
F Tun - ION
A Tus - Ven
F TYS - Nap

and

A ber H
A kie S Mun H
F bal S ber H
Garuntees 5 way win
R u there?
Yes.  That's fine.  I'll have Berlin do something, but still.
Why would you have Berlin do anything? That will mess up the support from F BAL.
Support
K
Hey how's it going!? Hoping we can work together in this one. How you feeling about gal this year? Should we bounce there?
Greetings Austria, nice to make your acquaintance.

This is definitely a unique game given the time constraints and high stakes. I intend to strike Northwest in an attempt to build a large fleet line extending across the North Atlantic. I need your cooperation to make this work, however. I need you to eliminate Turkey as a threat, and quickly so that I can turn my full attention North. Here is what I propose:

I take RUM, but agree to take no centers South of RUM.
Spring 1901 I move A MOS-STP
We both agree to a total DMZ in GAL
Fall 1901 I will move A WAR North
I will use any available strength along my Southern border to support you in taking the Balkans and Turkey throughout the game.

I think if we can both maintain trust you and I can hold the majority of centers between the two of us in 1910, and we'll both walk out of this game with the spoils. What do you think?
Sounds interesting! What does A War do in the spring?
I think A WAR-MOS. It allows me to backfill and on the off chance you do stab me and move to GAL I can bounce WAR in the Autumn then build in WAR, to be frank.
Ok. So you want to take rum this year with your fleet? You're ok giving up the black sea? Or are you hoping for a DMZ there?
Bounce in the spring, hope for the DMZ in the fall
Alright well I'll take the risk and DMZ gal from the outset. Gotta trust someone from the start and your plan is sound for the both of us.
Sorry that the game had to go the way it did, but it's just the game. Nice playing with you. Sorry about the stab.
Howdy diddly do, neighbor!

Any thoughts on how you'd like the opening stages to go?
I'd love to take all of the balkans and Rumania then all of Italy and France in the next 2 years. Seems like a decent opening!? How about you? 🙂
Wouldn't we all love that?  I mean, not specifically you taking all that...
Seriously, though, you have any thoughts on what kind if longer term partner you want? Any grudges you need to work out on the board?
You, umm, want to ask me to get my fleet out to help slow down Italy?
I think we are both an early dinner at this point but sure!
I've put prelim orders in to support Greece to ion and stand Italy out.  Let me know if that's wasted effort
I'll support you into ION instead. I don't want to be leaving Greece.
https://tenor.com/view/turkey-slice-cut-thanksgiving-gif-3575755
Good idea - help Russia, I'm sure that will work out well for you haha
Hey Turkey! 

How's it looking over there in the east? Anyways, I was wondering in if you have any intel on Italy, since I haven't heard much from them. I realize we most likely won't have too much to do with each other in the beginning, but I'm looking forwards to working with you later in the game if were both still around! 

-France
Oh my bad Austria 😳
Well, same could go for you ig
I'm the same, have heard nothing from Italy.
Hey austria; I don't know if you have noticed but russia is huge rn and is about to crush both you and turkey, and then procede to run over the rest of the map. Idk how your relationship with turkey or italy is, but you guys really need to work together to stop russia.
I haven't noticed! lol. I have noticed. Italy is working with Russia and is unresponsive. Turkey and perhaps even Germany are going to help but I think this ship has sailed 🙂
Eh. It's only been a year. Can't be over yet. *right?*😫
Haha well Turkey is now working with Russia so good luck in stopping that Russia train now haha
😈 watch me
Hey England, sorry I've been so long in reaching out.

Just wanted to make it clear that I hold no I'll intentions toward you, and my moves Spring 1901 should prove that. I will absolutely not be moving A MOS-STP, and I'd hope to consider you a welcome neighbor should you decide to take NWY in the future. We each stand to gain little by meddling in each other's business, I would be happy to leave you to your business in the West while I play in my own sphere of influence.

Best wishes and good luck!
Hello Turkey, nice to make your acquaintance. 

I've been thinking about this game alot, because the fact that it will only last until 1910 really changes my strategy. Add in that no one is likely to NMR and I believe it will be near impossible to solo. As such, it really only makes sense to find a ride or die partner for close tactical coordination and grab as many centers as possible.

As I'm sure you know, when R/T can trust each other and are firing on all 8 the Juggernaut can be nearly unstoppable. You, as Turkey, are my number 1 preferred partner in this game. I propose that we ally to dominate the Eastern sphere of this game. Do you agree?
I mean, who doesn't like a good Juggernaut?  Always a fun start to the game!  

How do you like to play it?  Standard bounce in Black then go our own way West, or something a little fancier that requires a bit more trust?  I'm of course partial to a plan that gets an army rather than a fleet in rum, but other than that pretty open.
I usually go with the bounce, but due to the unusual nature of this game I would consider other openings. If you would be willing to allow F SEV-BLA I could support us both into a quick takeover of the Balkans. I understand that that move takes a lot of trust, however, so I am of course open to other suggestions.
Bounce is safer, but rotation is more fun, and it's just a game. Let's do it.
Nice! Have to take some time to think about this tactically but I think we're in a good spot.

 I'm kind of surprised Italy took Trieste, that's statistically a pretty bad move for Italy.
But a good move for us, unless it's a Key - which it likely isn't, because the moving the second fleet north hurts that opening.

So...umm...  Carry on, I guess.  You're pretty well guaranteed two builds.
Alrighty then - looks like there will be no coherent defense from the West.
Italy getting two builds concerns me a little bit. I want to make sure that you gain two builds if possible in 1902. I'm worried that Italy is going to throw two fleets at you and to be honest losing you would be crippling for my game.

I've been toying with the idea of asking for an Alliance of you, Germany and I to go to 1910 together. I think it's the only thing that makes strategic sense. I can help you with Italy and Germany with England, and all three of us can end up with 10+ centers at the end of 1910.  Do you have any input on this idea?
I'm ok with that - and his current issues aside, France is a reasonable alternative to Germany there - especially as I half-expect England/Germany to pull back and react to your three builds.  But I'm good either way.

In any event, yes, I expect Italy to drop two fleets and position on me.  If Austria were actually communicative I'd be trying to spin my positioning as protecting him, but at the moment I'm talking to a wall.  Which is somewhat moot if we move fast enough - he shouldn't really have enough time to firm up a credible defense.
So...interestingly, I was having a conversation with the admin about why I would give an order for my army to be convoyed by your Black Sea fleet even though that wasn't ever something I asked for or discussed.  And it makes me wonder - did you see that move as me sending a message, and if so what message?
Well, I can tell you that it totally faked out Germany.  They think that I screwed you by not convoying and the Jug isn't even on their radar at the moment. In that aspect it was amazingly successful. Tactically it's not a bad move, keeping an army back offers you a little insurance against an Armenian stab this year (of course I wasn't stabbing anyway, but insurance never hurts). If you had gained two builds it would have left Con and Smy open to build fleets in. Good move.
Germany called it "an obvious bit of Lucy pulling the football away from Charlie Brown"
What are you thinking in regards to the Balkans this turn? I've got a possible idea, but I need to kick the tactics around in my head for a minute before I explain it.
I think this set of moves is the safe, normal play here:

Russia
A BUD-VIE
A RUM S BUL-SER
F BLA C ANK-BUL
A SEV-UKR

Turkey
A BUL-SER
A ANK-BUL

I think there are other options as well, like if I supported Austria from Serbia to Trieste, allowing you to move into Serbia, keeping Austria at 3 centers and harming Italy. That kind of move has a much greater risk of blowing up in our faces, however.

 I'm willing to follow your lead  here, you tell me which way to jump.
Well hello, lots of messages to catch up on.  So the convoy move had more or less the intended effect. 😀

I *finally* am getting responses from Austria, so trying to stand Italy out of Ionian in the sitting is an option. Otherwise it's fall back on original plan which is basically the moves you have up above. Trying to get tricksy with supporting Austria forward sounds like a way to end up with hostile units in Galicia.   If I were going to put forth another option, it would probably be for you to rotate rum to gal while I tap Greece and Serbia - letting Budapest choose which move to support.
Well, not perfect, but we can work with this. Serbia will take your proxy order this turn - I assume supporting rum to bud?
Alternative proposal: use rum to support Serbia, and punch your fleet through Constantinople to get it on the front line.
Deadline's looming. What's the plan, chief?
I've been informed that Germany and England will be moving against me this turn, unfortunately. I'm going to move RUM-BUD, all other moves will be heading North.
Fair. Didn't sound like they had gotten their shit together, but do what you need. Serbia will support
Do you need anything specific besides me just pushing along in the South?
Could you tap TRI? I may be able to snag VIE this year, depending on what Germany decides to do.
Done. Let me know if not needed, as if be better off trying to rotate.
Side note: for a bunch of Diplomacy players, this board isn't very talkative.
I'll agree with that. You and Germany are the only ones seemingly willing to communicate with me, and Germany has been talked into a bad faith deal with England it appears. I'm trying to use England's NMR to drive a wedge in that relationship now.
I think the way we played 1901 made Germany think that I am a giant threat, when in actuality I really do want to work with Germany. 

Do you think we can get you in Trieste this year?
Quite possibly. You'll want me to tap it anyway to help protect Vienna.
Found the negotiation point with Germany - he wants Trieste. Is that something you're willing to bargain on, and if so what do you want?
(to be clear, I'm ordered to Trieste myself until I hear otherwise from you)
I think I have something worked out that takes some of the issue off of you. You'll know it worked if you see some chairs in the West this turn. 😀
Wow, autocorrect. Some of the pressure off of you. Chaos in the West.
That's awesome, I can work with that. It gives me the ability to make offensive moves in the North again with Germany under pressure.
Greetings Russia!

How is it over there in the north? I feel that an France-Russia alliance is basically the best in the game. Of course, this is a bit more of a mid and late-game alliance, but there is no reason not to work something out rn. What do you think? Looking forwards to a great game

-France
Absolutely, I think with the artificial time constraints in this game a three or four way draw is the most likely outcome, and as we share no direct spheres of influence I of course bear you no ill will. Hope to see you in the end game
Alright, looking forwards to it. Have you heard anything of italy, france, or germany? Just trying to gather some intel here 🤪
Hi again Russia. I don't know about you but I would be interested in an alliance—our positions perfectly complement each other right now. I know that you and turkey have an alliance—but if you look at the last few years, it's clear that you haven't gotten anything out of this. In the first year of the game, you had 7 units, and were looking like you basically had the game. But once you made your alliance with turkey, you were all bottled up, and got no more builds. But now, your actually in a great place to stab turkey, with you fleet in Bla, and your armies in the Balkans. I think if we play this right, the game could practically be ours.
Excellent move!
To be honest I'm not willing to betray trust with Turkey. I would be happy, however to see a 3 way draw in 1910 consisting of you, Turkey and I.
What are you thinking for moves?
It would be nice if you attacked silesia, but you don't have to
That kind of leaves me vulnerable on the retreat, but I will self bounce over it if you wish
Sure
Hey... I thought we were going for a 3-way draw. I clearly wasn't going for the solo and I think your decision to attack me was shortsighted and selfish
Hey Russia,
Everybody vastly overreacted, worrying that I was going to go for the solo, since I had 11 centers. Even though I clearly wasn't going to, literally EVERYONE teamed up against me, reducing me to 9. And frankly, I wouldn't be surprised if the attack continued.  Meanwhile, turkey has gotten 12 centers, and is in a great position—you territory is exposed, and turkey is likely going to break through my defenses as well. It's more than likely that turkey is going for the solo. Just saying—if turkey wins, it's because all of u guys were selfish and ignored the bigger threat at hand. On that note, I hope turkey doesn't win, and that we can come together to stop them(much like you did to me). BTW I am sending this message to everybody. I hope we can work together to stop the solo
Hey Russia, based off them telling/threatening  me and their Maine’s indicating it, Turkey is for the solo.
Just letting you know, so we can work together and stop them.
Hey Russia . Can we agree it’s time to put a hold on Turkey, as they are 3 away from getting the solo... we should collaborate/support each other, as it is clear neither of us will be eliminated (sending this message to everyone)
Hello
I would like to work with you
Hello.  Is it me you're looking for?
Yes, actually. It is. Lol.
On a more serious note, I have come to the realization that France and Russia have no intentions to work with me. I also realize that you will shortly have no room to grow. I propose an alliance between the two of us. We try to take out Russia before the end of the game, thus leaving only three of us to split the pot. Russia will have no choice but to disband a unit next phase. I expect him to disband  his fleet in the South, thus leaving you the perfect opportunity to attack. Let me know what your thoughts are.
You've pretty much voiced my thoughts there. The turn I accidentally went nmr, the orders that didn't take were me moving North into Russia. Now I'm just waiting for another good window - and post-pull is the right time.
Great, I'm looking forward to it.
Any specifics on how we want this to end?
Based on the current circumstances I'd say a five way draw is the most plausible ending.
Would you like to work together?
I do like the prospect of an alliance between our two nations. Maybe to take out germany? Have you heard anything from them? 

In any case, I think we should arrange a DMZ in the english channel. It will allow both of our fleets to be more effective in places where they could do a lot more. Let me know what you think.

 Looking forwards to a great game! -France
I haven't really heard much of anything from Germany.
Also, I think a DMZ could work well.
Ok. Want to work together against germany?
Yes, that's what I'm hoping for.
What are you thinking for moves?
I plan on moving to nth and nrg. I will take nor with a fleet and then convoy into bel.
Sounds good
Imma move into bur
I was expecting you to bounce me... oh well
Ooops.. wrong person
So you moved into Eng. ANy chance we can resolve this peacefully?
For example I could support u into belguim if you don't move into brest
No thank you.
Hey Engand; I know our relationship doesn't stand very well- but we need to stop Russia. They got 3 builds, and have a few more in their pocket, as they are about to crush Austria and turkey at the same time. And then, I'm not sure if you noticed.... but the build in Stp... could only mean one thing. I know your focused on taking my territory rn, but if you want to have any shot at winning your going to need to put aside our differences and get your fleets further south where they can stop russia
I 100 percent agree with you right now, I've actually already placed orders to reroute my army.
Ok. what's w/ picardy? Maybe you could work something out w/ germany and get it south?
I was going to support bel to bur, but I will see if he is able to change his plans before adjudication,
I'm assuming germany reached out to you about attacking me?
Yes, but I know that he also realizes the Russian threat and will most likely be willing to work together.
Well, no matter what germany says you probably shouldn't do that as it allows germany to be more powerfull, and does nothing to stop russia. What germany and I are wanting to do is have him move to Tyr and me go to Mar and then Pie
What I think you should do is move Eng to Nth, convince Germany to let you move Bel(you wouldn't be taking it though, just moving through), and then  convoy Bel to Nwy where you could really fight russia
What  do you think?
I think it's a good idea
Ok, talk to germany about it. I let them know I think you should do it but they havn't responded yet
So did you work something out with germany?
Still talking with him. He's leaving your border, but isn't thrilled with the idea of me moving to bel.
He says he worked it out with u and is doing it. Lie or truth?
what are you planning for Nwy? Hold? If you want to take the risk u could move to Bar
Or for something safer go to sweden
I was holding. I think that's the best idea, although I have no doubt that he will take it.
Moving to Swe can't hurt, right?
About to adjudicate. Gl
That's right. I'll send the order now.
You don't have your orders in yet? What? 🥵
Hey england. Havn't heard from you in a while. What are you thinking about germany? Has ur alliance ended bc of your betrayal or not rly?
We agreed that I would take bel, so there is no betrayal. At the moment were trying to finish up Scandinavia.
Ok
WHy didn't you move?
Germany told me your moving out of belguim. Is it true/
I don't know why I didn't move, I made sure to send my orders. Yes, I will be convoying out of Bel.
Sounds good.
Were still good right?
Yes, we're still good
Hi England. So I looked at the map and have re-assessed my alliances. A few years ago, you were missing turns and not making the best moves, so naturally my decision was to go with Russia instead of you for a 3-way win. But times have changed; you have played very well, weakened Russia, and are in a great position. Me and turkey are planning on stabbing Russia this fall, and we will(most likely) be guaranteed at least 3 of their centers, rendereing them very weak. So my suggestion to you is that we switch alliances and try to go for a 3-way win between me, you, and turkey. TUrkey is on board with this
On that note if you want to attack denmarkit is appreciatied
You've already proven yourself to be too unweildy of an ally for me. I do plan on working against Russia with the ottomans, and I will gladly accept a three-way draw, but I will not be helping you against Germany.
I never said you should help me against Germany. I OFFERED you a position in a three way draw.
I said it would "be appreciated"
Ok
Ok
Hey England,
Everybody vastly overreacted, worrying that I was going to go for the solo, since I had 11 centers. Even though I clearly wasn't going to, literally EVERYONE teamed up against me, reducing me to 9. And frankly, I wouldn't be surprised if the attack continued.  Meanwhile, turkey has gotten 12 centers, and is in a great position—Russia is exposed, and they are likely going to break through my defenses as well. It's more than likely that turkey is going for the solo. Just saying—if turkey wins, it's because all of u guys were selfish and ignored the bigger threat at hand. On that note, I hope turkey doesn't win, and that we can come together to stop them(much like you did to me). BTW I am sending this message to everybody. I hope we can put aside our past and stop bickering over here in the west.
I will leave you to fight the ottomans.
Hey England. Can we agree it’s time to put a hold on Turkey, as they are 3 away from getting the solo... we should collaborate/support each other, as it is clear neither of us will be eliminated (sending this message to everyone)
Yes, I completely agree. I am moving to hold him off in northern Russia and if you need I can send you naval support in the Mediterranean.
Hey, I think we can agree that we need to take whatever measures possilble to stop Turkey from getting one more supply center. We just need to last one more year, and I think with some communication it might be possible. Do whatever it takes to stop turkey
Realistically, turkey won't be able to take any supply centers from you. So what you need to do is move your fleets adjacent to germanys territories(which will be attacked), and then support germany in them OR take them if they have already been taken
This game is probably over, but we need to try
That's the plan; defend German territory
Thanks
Ok, I legitimantly think we can stop turkey from getting one more center.
What are you thinking for moves?
Defend mun I guess. As long as he doesn't take anything this phase, the game will end with a five way draw.
Yea, Russia got lucky
Hey Turkey! 

How's it looking over there in the east? Anyways, I was wondering in if you have any intel on Italy, since I haven't heard much from them. I realize we most likely won't have too much to do with each other in the beginning, but I'm looking forwards to working with you later in the game if were both still around!
I've reached out to Italy and heard... Absolutely nothing. No response yet. Sorry!
He doesn't seem the most talkative type. 

Anyway, how you doin?
Hey Turkey; I don't know if you have noticed but Russia is huge rn and is about to crush both you and Austria, and then proceed to run over the rest of the map. Idk how your relationship with Austria or Italy is, but you guys really need to work together to stop Russia.
Why are you working with russia??? You realize as soon as they have used you they are going to turn on you and crush you?
Does that mean you don't want to talk about a Triple Entente?
How would you like to spice this pie?
Hi turkey. Sorry I haven't been in touch. Actually, I'm interested in working with you. You seem like a pretty good player, and our positions in this game complement each other. We could work on taking out italy, if your interested
I mean, certainly looks like that's what our positions dictate right now. And the fact that he's simply silent.
Ok. Are you still with russia? THey are kinda in a pickle rn, and are going to have trouble growing unless you help them. The only people you can really attack are italy and russia...
I'm assuming your going to take ion, and then Triest with the help of russia?
In any case, you attacking triest would be great for both of us. SInce I am going for Venice with germanies support, if you went for triest we would almost definitly get them both, unless russia does something wierd
That was the plan -looks like it worked out, too. Anyway, kill Italy fast, then my natural path is to the north -no reason for us to waste a lot of time and effort deadlocked in the med.
I agree about the med... but if you have sole control over it I'm sure you understand that I might worry. Ideally, after Italy is wiped out, then we would both withdraw or disband our fleets.
That would be nice, but even just making sure we don't start an arms race there by putting more and more units in is a good start. We can probably both afford to keep two fleets locking it down for the foreseeable future.
As you could probably guess, me and Germany have an alliance. But, if I'm going to be 100% honest here, I think that at this point in the game, where Germany is completely exposed from the backside(Ruhr), it's time to shift our alliances. I seriously doubt anybody is going to get the win—but getting a two-way win might be possible. If I can take out Germany, and you take out Russia, Italy and England are a piece of cake.
I like the cut of your jib. I'm planning to cut north after builds, and to really make that pay off is assuming that, after Italy, your focus is one of your other neighbors and not me. And while I would never advise you to betray a trust, you're certainly correct that Germany is hella out of position until he can put a couple builds down.
I don't really think it would make sense to go after you, considering I could just walk into Germany. What are you thinking for builds?
No plans for my unit in venice rn. Would you like me to support u into tyr?
Or I could move Piedmont to Tyr..  what do you think?
FFS, is our deadline really midnight Monday et?  Hang on, checking map -i thought we had more time.
I can support Piedmont to Tyrolia
Ok let’s do that. I’m also moving to burgundy and Tyrolia, so not looking good for Germany 😈
And now for me to do my part - pivoting now.
Oh, and I frigging hate it when someone NMRs and it turns out to be better for them than just about any moves they might have put in.  This turn, I can cover Naples, you can cover Rome and Tunis, and either he NMRs again and is eliminated, or he puts orders in and can cover at most one of them.
Why did you move into Venice? What are we going to do for moves?
As long as you tap Venice, it's stable.
Our borders are a bit awkward, especially in Italy. And I would like there to be more trust between us, since we need to work to together. I think one problem is the lack of communication; we are barely talking to each other.
On that note, I think we should abondon russia, and either go for the two-way win, or a 3-way win w/ england, because they will be extremely hard to eliminate
England has just as many units as Russia, but they are going to be very difficult to eliminate, while Russia will be easy to wipe out. I have already talked to england about this and they are on board.
So this turn don't actually stab Russia yet, just get in a convenient position to do so. Assuming Russia doesn't expect anything, we will be able to get 3 of russias supply centers. I hope you agree to this plan, and let me know in the next few hours, as I am not going to stab russia unless you are on board
Oh, come on turkey. You know there isn’t any way your going to eliminate me before 1910, and I’m clearly not going for the solo
Oof, I've been traveling all day and just got your messages. No, there's no point in trying to eliminate you.  And, yes, I'm pretty sure we could eliminate Russia.
SO... could you stop attacking me and instead attack russia, whose centers are wide open to your taking? Your attack on me was very selfish as I am clearly not going to be able to get the solo, but we might be able to eliminate Russia IF YOU ATTACKED THEM
... What do you think I just did?
I sent that before adjudication
Fair point. 😃
Looks like someone is going for the solo😲
Is it you?  I think you can do it if there's not too much English resistance 🙂
No. i was talking about the person with 12 supply centers.
Oh - yeah, there's not enough time in this game to hit a solo.  Just attacking Russia *like everyone kept asking me to do*.  🙂
Ok, let’s go for a 3-way win between me, u, and England, this is the most realistic option at this point
Works for me - and notice that I'm actually putting zero pressure on you now 🙂
*although you took like 6 of my territories before*
lol - two, three at most, but fair enough.  I've made no effort to move past the boot, or even to position where I coud
What about now...
I'm not moving toward you. If I were, I'd have built a southern fleet.  In fact, I'm grounding the Adriatic fleet away from Ionian
Well, it looks like its game over
^most likely
Maybe?
Hello! What are your initial plans?
Still hashing it out.
Cool. I don't like Russia so far, so an A/I that can stop a juggernaut would be my preference right now.
I haven't heard from Russia yet.
Oof. So you decided to attack Austria and now Russia and Turkey are in a much better position. My advice would be to apologize to Austria and fight against this juggernaut that could be forming. Attacking Austria is not gonna work well for you.
So there is definitely a juggernaut forming
I'm okay with that.
I'm okay with that
Ummm... a juggernaut means Russia and Turkey hold their alliance above an alliance with Austria or Italy. Russia confirmed in chat with me that he has been planning to work with Turkey since the beginning.
Hmm I thought it was something else
I'm thoroughly confused as to what is happening in the east. Russia seems to have lied to everyone
He asks me to stab every turn. Hes allied with everyone, begging them to stab. Then everyone is like, watch out for the jugg or watch out for the Austronaut.
Austria would do a key or speed lepanto and wanted to do blue water which was very pro Russian. It's on him for trusting Russia over me.
Wouldnt
So are you working with Turkey now? Or Austria?
Considering I'm in Syria, Im not sure if the question is rhetorical.
If you arent using Tyrolia, tapping Bohemia would be super helpful to me.
I'll keep it in mind.
I can hold munich
Modified Key Lepanto?
Hey Italy. I don’t want to fight you right now. Are you familiar with the deep water / deep blue lepanto? It’s a move that lets us work together in the first few years against Turkey.
You read my mind.
Not key though.
Just to be clear, I’m open to a modified Lepanto, but not a Key. I’ve never played with you before and I’d like to go on a date, maybe a nice dinner on a romantic boat ride before giving you a key to my place. 😉
I like the Key where I go BOH and take AEG. We both get one build and Turkey falls fast.
What does boh stand for here? I normally associate that with Bohemia.
The opening I’m talking about is Italy: A Rom - Ven; F Nap - TyrS; A Ven - Apu; F Trie - AdrS; A Vie - Trie; A Bud - ?;
From there, I take the Ionian and you build F Nap. In Spring you kick me out of Ion and I retreat East to EMed or Aeg and then we start convoying in the fall.
I’ve always thought of Key Lepanto being where I let you move in to Trie and then you move out, into Serb Before winter.
Crap I meant BUD
I’m open to working with you. Most of my shared wins are either as Italy working with Austria or vice versa. Letting you take a home center is a bit more than I’m willing to give up at this time.
It's cool it takes a ton of trust, so I get it that you're unwilling to try. Unfortunately without a guaranteed center going AEG isnt viable. I'll think about the blue water.
At the very least do you want to organize a bounce in Ven? Russia is being aggressive and Turkey is stonewalling, so we might be looking at an ill-advised and obvious juggernaut. It’s possible that’s just smoke, but I’m always cautious about that and a western triple
Well if you're worried about a jugg then a blue water seems risky for you. Sounds like you're hedging.
It is a risk, and a blue water can be bad in that situation. I’m willing to take the risk though because just turtling will lead to a boring game where I’m eliminated in 1904. I’d rather have some say over my destiny.
I’m going to sleep. I’ll respond in the morning.
Any more thoughts about the blue water?
We can try it
What are you planning to do with Ven? Push it to Apu and then push Rom - Ven?
I can bounce you in Trie if you prefer?
That doesn't sound like blue water...
Bouncing in Trie can be incorporated into a blue water Lepanto. Diplo pouch and diplomacy archive both suggest Austria move A Vie - Trie and F Trie - Alb. They differ on A Ven though. One says it should check France by moving to Pie and the other suggests A Ven hold.
I want to really sell our “conflict” to the other parties and keep a presence up north in case Russia tries to force the Carpathians. A Vie - Trie bouncing with A Ven - Trie accomplishes both of these goals for me. Additionally, if I move F Trie - ADR instead of F Trie - Alb and we bounce, then you don’t have to worry about me having two units on Venice’s border.
The question in my mind is how I get into IonS.
Bounce in tri, you can so adr but it's a tough sell. Alb is much easier to sell. Then alb - ion
Do you mean a tough sell to you or the rest of the board?
Just an FYI, my moves are currently set for a Trie bounce and a move to Alb.
If we are going to move East together, then my opinion is that we want a stalemate in the west until we have established control in the East.
France has confirmed that it will force Burgundy this year. Instead of F Nap - Ion, can you order F Nap - TyrS or F Ven - Pie to scare him off? What do you think? You can still blue water Lepanto with an opening to TyrS and you can take a shot at Mar if you move Pie. I think  France and England decisively destroying Germany would be bad for us and would love to hear your thoughts.
You didn't really secure yourself for blue water. You still moving ion or just taking gre?
I can cover Bud. I wanted that bounce in Trie because I suspected Russia was lying. Turns out Russia did directly lie to me. This makes me think Russia is working with Turkey.
Blue water can still happen if you move F Ion - Tun. I’m putting a lot of trust in you. If you stab me, I’m going to let Turkey have everything.
Do you want to do blue water still or no?
Youd be giving up Greece though.
If you move to Tun, do you think Turkey will build two fleets? That’d be a red alert for Russia and Turkey working together and would frustrate a Lepanto of any kind.
Maybe not but any fleet could he bad. Up to you. It's your build.
Are you going to take Tun with F Ion or convoy A Nap?
Depends if you want Greece or a retreat.
What do you think about F Alb S A Apu - Gre, A Apu - Gre, F Ion C A Apu - Gre? I’ve never seen it happen.
I've done it but its usually off a hedgehog. You have no reason to drop an army in Greece when we have your fleet which is much more useful there.
The fleet isn’t going to take it. Russia will probably force Rum and Turkey will probably push for a bounce/ take Gre this turn
Oh were you not supporting with SER?
If you're doing a self bounce, I can do the convoy.
Let me know I'll do it
I say we stick to the blue water. Is that cool with you? If so, I’ll move into the Ionic
Okay
So Tyrolia...
You said you wanted it to look like we were fighting. Russia also wanted me there. If I wanted to stab I would have walked into TRI as I knew it would be unoccupied. Also I would have convoyed
I'm sliding back south for the convoy and dislodging you
Sorry next time I'll keep you in the loop. This chat interface isnt the best for the amount of messages I usually send.
Ok. That makes sense. Russia looks like he might try to push Gal. I can’t fight you both and I hadn’t considered Tri.
I know russia just asked me for help to split you if we weren't doing a lepanto. I said, "He cant stop us both!" Which is true for you and Turkey. But I'm full in for the lepanto. I just have to say vague truths to Russia for now.
I believe you.
The jugg can still happen and I have fleet mar. Cant afford to attack you, not that it matters. I'm a grab one player by the hand and run kind of guy. Hence my two hearts stitched together icon. I'm seriously loyal and will suicide into my ally if I'm stabbed. So let's roll the map and make some money.
Cool. I’m in agreement with you. I’m trying to use 3 center France and it’s navy to convince England to ally with Germany and am trying to get him to convoy an army up north while Russia fights me in the Carpathians. Russia and Turkey both built away from the Russo - Turkish front in ways that telegraph a desire to attack me and you. Russia could have taken Rum with a fleet and built a second in Sev, but instead he moved an army there and built A War. Turkey’s build is entirely useless for fighting Russia. The Juggernaut is going to happen.
I agree
Would you please move A Tyrl - Boh
Blast. That boh support would be nice
sorry I thought I had a little more time, that was on me.
F EMed C A Apu - Syr?
Yes
alright
I'm gonna tap SMY, can you support ION - AEG?
do you wanna bounce with me somewhere? Russia is again asking me to split you.
or maybe I should go to arm
Can you bounce Vie?
you got it
I think I’m going to need F Nap - ADR for support in Trie, but I’ll to look at it all after work. If Germany isn’t able to get relief, the juggernaut will take the board
I already switched that. Ordered that exactly.
I would be surprised if we don’t see

1. A Ank S F Smy hold, F Smy S F Con - Aeg; or
2. A Ank - Smy, A Smy - Aeg, A Con S A Smy - Aeg
With F Rum holding or moving to Sev 

Russia has been issuing very cautious orders . I think they’re going to either
1. move by displacing Serb, which allows a retreat into either Alb, Bud, or Vie; or
2. move Turkey into Alb from Greece, and move up everything else (e.g. A Bul - Gre w/ A Seb S A Bul - Gre. 

I also don’t think there is anything permanent in Smy at this point.

What do you think about
A Smy - Gre with A Alb supporting it in?
Syria?
Yeah, sorry
I'm willing to try it. I figure Armenia would be good pressure though
Got all this way
Shit I'm sorry I didn't know adjudication was happening so soon.
Yeah it comes quickly.

This has been one of the most stressful and unproductive games I’ve ever played. I’m amazed that I’m still alive.

What do you think about
F Ion - AEG
F ADR - Ion
F EMed S F Ion -AEG
Sounds good
What’s your plan for A Tyrl?
Germany asked me to tap bohemia
But if you need it, its yours
Like I said, I'm loyal to a fault.
Wish you would have keyed with me
No, I’m OK. I’m going to risk Vienna.

Yeah, it would have worked.
I’m supporting your fleet to AEG, but I can also support you to Smy
Russia is your friend right now. Can you figure out what Turkish units he is thinking of attacking and which territories of mine he wants to hit?

Greece might be open and I might be able to risk more if we figure his moves out
Sounds good
support my fleet to AEG
I think you should try for serbia
he's offering me ank, I think I'll still tap smy to get aeg
He say anything about Vie
Nothing.
Well that sucks
Sorry, I had them in. I just didnt hit submit I guess
It’s ok. We need to get you into Boh
Alright. You got a build right?
Yeah
I’m supporting you into Boh and AEG
I say you shoot for Sev and try to wreak havoc behind his lines
Got it!
I fully agree
I’m going to be at risk when he retreats to Gal, especially if he coordinates with Turkey.
Hopefully my raider gets though. Might save us.
Yeah, if you can tap Rum, Gal, and Gre, we’ll be ok
Hey
I’m supporting Gre - Bul and Rum to hold
What do you need from ukr?
Do you 
1. want to shift down into Bul with me supporting Ukr into Bul
2. Shift up into Bul? With me trying to maneuver towards War?

Whatever you do, France is building up towards you. A deliberate bounce in Pie might not be a bad choice because it’ll give you time to secure the Med next year
Support gal into war?
I got that ordered for now
Shit sorry didnt hit submit. Backstabbr is killing me.
What do you want to do? You can’t lose a fleet because of France
Hey?
Sorry I'm working
Will be off in a hour or so
Will you be available then?
Yeah, I’m home from work
Oh crap,  I forgot
Alright, so, let me look
So...
Bud s rum 
Ser s gre - bul
Gal s war
Ok
What going on with boh?
I didn’t expect to take War. I’m debating pressing north with it, but it could also help you.
I think I’m going to send it south
Okay.
Dude
Did I not submit? I'm scared to check.
You didn’t.
Dammit
Moving into sev. I've submitted my orders
Pulling back to ven if you wanna support me. Otherwise its probably a disband.
I didn’t see these before I moved. I’m sorry. I just assumed you weren’t entering any more moves
I can support you into Rum again and try to take Bul? I have to bounce Trie
You can delete the army. I’ll let you hold it without a unit so that you can keep your boats.
I have a destroy so theres no losing the army.
I’m supporting you into Tyrl
Is that ok?
Hello, my friend - I would like to work with you long-term.  Please let me know which direction you'd like to go first - into Austria or into Turkey.  Your choice will be my direction too.
I'm still figuring it out.
What are your first impressions? Germany obviously doesn't like you.
What makes you think that Germany doesn't "like" me?
He said it.
He said that he didn't like me?  What are we, middle school kids?
Apparently.  I haven't talked to anyone enough. Maybe he's just trying to stop a wintergreen.
Well ... what are your thoughts on a Wintergreen?  That's a Russia-Italy partnership, right?
It is Russo-Italian.
Austria is going to hedgehog though so I doubt we can get together soon.
hedgehog?  You mean he's going to open with his fleet to Venice?
Yes he's adamant on a ven move.
Interesting. That did not appear to be a hedgehog.
No I'm not sure what he's doing.
I wish you were in Tyrol.
Well I thought the move would fail.
Who did you think would open there?
Nobody but without ven it'd be bad.
Do you want to attack Austria together? You could try for Trieste again or go for position.
so... are doing a crafty lepanto or would you like to team up on Austria together? I’d be down for a split of Austria, then we take out turkey. Thoughts?
He can't stop us both!
You really like Tyrolia!
I heard there was a supply center rush in Germany and wanted my fair share.
Interesting. Usually Italy doesn’t bypass Austria to go after German dots. That’s an unsustainable position.  We also have two on Vienna, if you’re interested.
Looks like you're full on moving towards Germany
you online?
So, I'd be curious as to your thoughts going into this year.  Any interest in working together to divide up Austria quickly, and then take out Turkey?
Looks like you were working with Austria there. Changing it up?
He disbanded an army. And left himself wide open to us.
I think it would be in our mutual benefit to coordinate
Alright. I'm in a good spot. What's the plan. I' got units on Turkey and Austria. I want to grow.
I could support you into ANK
I’d like to do a long term split of the 8-9 centers. So, maybe I have long term ownership of ANK, but I’m willing to put you in there now.
Yeah. You probably should have worked with me. Or submitted orders.
Or both.
Meh, I hate this platform. It's alright. With chat down this game is a bust anyway.
Yet, you didn’t get on the “restart” bus with everyone else.
That’s pretty disingenuous on your part. I don’t seem to have a problem, and this is my first online game in years.
I thought there would be a more formal ask on the restart. I didnt know if it was necessary for me to say anything.
Literally everybody else was saying something.
And good for you. I haven't missed any turns in my 3 conspiracy games.
And, I even asked you to chime in. But, like every other request of you I’ve made - you ignored it.
And I was waiting for the moderator to say what he needed.
That’s great. Why could t you get your orders in for the game that you’re getting paid to participate in?
He did. He said he’s restart them game if all players agreed. Dude, it’s cool. You thought you had an advantageous position so why restart?
But own it. Don’t pretend, after you bolo some moves, that you wanted the restart all along. That’s disingenuous.
You still married to Austria?
He hasnt spoken to me. Not that I blame him.
What did I miss, your orders don't look agressive towards him
Nothing. After missing orders I think he's through.
too bad France is on your ass, otherwise you could possibly slip into Trieste.
Yeah and France wont talk. Its okay. It all my fault.
Like a candle, burning from both ends.  You lit up the table, my friend - but you're running out of wick.
I'd be fine if I hit the submit button
Won't you be down to four centers?
Yeah I'm gonna die. Not much I can do about it.
well ... you could make up for taking SEV when you did. 🙂
Not sure where you're going with this
Sometimes when players accept that their game is over they try to help out the players whose games they ruined in the process.
For example, when you walked into Sevastapol, you blew up my position and really put by game in ruins.  Maybe you would like to do something to remedy this.  Let me know what Austria is doing, etc.  I really think you'd be having a much better game if you had just ran in on Austria while you had the chance - which is something I was trying to coordinate with you.
Yeah, honestly you're the only one to contact me
I try to talk to everyone. The facilitator  has old me that this is one of the last talkative games he’s run. I think it’s because everyone is in line trying to get tickets to go see Frozen II.
*told, least
I usually do, but this interface makes it less fluid.
Why would you keep the isolated army?
Hello there! I realize that we don’t have a ton to talk about but I’m curious what you think about the game in general, and specifically France.
I'm not sure yet, let me work out the East.
Yeah just want to know what my neighbors are thinking, keep me posted and let me know if you need my opinion on anything
Not always giving me the option to guess true or false even though it asks me. <@567829259054219275>
I’ve been getting it
Any chance you move against France?
I can support you in Trieste and leave you to convoy to Greece.
He speaks!
I could say the same thing, what about what i said
I think Austria is about dead anyway. Might as well.
Ok lets do that
Austria just became a vassal of russia. We have to start talking at least.
Agreed, I'm seeing it too
now, how do we take advantage of this situation? Russia is pulling a lot of strings here and we really have to do something
what would you have me do?
Will you be able to arrange convoying the army back?
I'll try
Armenia?
We are going to lose anyway by the 1910
But we can at least work together, you, me and austria together to ensure we at least survive
Hello there 😄
Hi
That was a good lie
I think you may have problems.
Oof this is a tough one to react to
Both England and Germany are wondering if I'll open west.
But I won't
You’re really trying to get that lying bonus huh
Kidding 😘
Hey if I am not then you are so dead!
Really, fleet MAR
Please swing north with that shit.
Jugg jugg jugg jugg
Lol Austria
You really coming for me?
😱
Iuch
Hey, would you mind guaranteeing Tyrolia by leaving A Mun where it is or by bouncing in Bul? If you tell Italy you have my back, I’m less likely to wind up like the actual Austrians and we both get to live longer.
I'd rather use my army in the northern campaign, but I certainly dont want to see Italy in Tyrolia, so I'll talk to Italy and see where they are at. I still might bounce in Bur, still figuring things out.
Yeah, Russia is playing hard ball, so i understand and fully support you hitting north (maybe with England’s help). If you do bounce Bur, I can make do as well.
Did you organize a bounce in Bur / tell Italy you’ll guarantee Tyrolia?
Just checking. Not demanding.
France has told me he is supporting himself into Burgundy, which is troubling. I have talked to Italy, but I can't guarantee that I can help you if France is hostile to me.
France confirmed the same to me. I’m trying to make him paranoid about the Italians and have put the idea in England’s heard that England can take the channel and use it as leverage for Bel. Hope that helps.
Wow... Italy really screwed you over. I'll be bouncing Russia out of Sweden, and I'm trying to get Italy to stop attacking you, but Turkey could be another source of help for you.
I’m trying to get England to ally with you by pointing to 3 center France, the French navy, and the Juggernaut.
Re: Juggernaut - Russia could have taken Rum with F Sev and built a new fleet. Instead, Russia built A War. Turkey could have built an army in Ank, but instead ordered literally the only build that doesn’t threaten Russia or even secure Turkey’s right flank. I’m clearly going to be fighting in the Carpathians and would appreciate you and England pressuring the north if you can. I recognize that Nth and the EC are more strategically important to you both, but if you can keep Russia out of Sweden or take StP, I’d appreciate it.
England moved against me. I don't think he's going to work with me
Yeah, hopefully England will change is it’s mind.
England still gunning for me even when France and Russia are going to attack him. This is so annoying. The two of us are about to get smashed
Russia is allegedly about to hit boh and sil. He warned me about Serb and I thought he was trying to take Gal and Bud instead and Germany has been fairly consistent with me, so I believe him. He said he also isn’t happy about Turkey getting as much as he did as quickly as he did. I’ll try one more time with England
I think he's telling you what you want you hear,  but he could be doing the same to me. One of the two of us will get attacked by Russia though, of that I am sure.
It’s possible, but I don’t really have an option.
Please dont hurt me
I dont really understand why you worked with Russia. I would appreciate if you worked with Italy and not Russia
I’m working with Italy.
So why support Russia to Serbia?
I wasn’t going to be able to get it back and he said he’d move a fleet into Rum. I had nothing to lose by ordering that.
Russia built where he did even though I said that would prove to me that he’s been acting in bad faith. We need France and England to acknowledge the juggernaut before they get to the stalemate.
You did have something to lose by ordering that. Russia getting larger is not good for either of us.
England says he’s willing to call truce because of Russia
I haven't attacked England once so I'm not sure what he wants me to do differently?
Maybe he will hell you into Bel and BarS?
What is Silesia doing?
I’m not sure. Italy failing to enter orders for an entire year has made my life difficult
I dont like it there
Ok. That was rather aggressive
Im taking Italy and Russias SCs. I would appreciate you covering your own SCs or attacking Russia elsewhere.
I’m set to surrender
Hello! What are your thoughts in Scandinavia?
I would like Sweden.  In exchange, I would offer up that fleet as a proxy unit for you.  Want some help into Skag?  You got it.  Want me to help you into North Sea after I take Norway?  It's all yours.  Thoughts?
Hello! So it sounds like you are already planning on taking Sweden and Norway. I will confess that a strong Northern power makes me uncomfortable. If you are planning on taking Norway, you are probably committing your army in Moscow to St Pete this year then? That makes you awfully vulnerable in the south.
I thought we might work together?  If I took Norway with your help, we could DMZ Scandinavia - which would allow me to focus on the South.
Anyway, that's getting way ahead of ourselves - I can't fight on two fronts, I'd rather work with you in the North and focus on the South.
I'd consider that if you didn't build at all in St Pete. Let me talk to France and get back to you, since I would clearly benefit more from this in an EF alliance than an EG alliance, and France has yet to say anything.
I'm comfortable with no build in the north.
Honestly, I think that I'm going to have to dedicate most of my units towards the South.  Let me know if the proxy fleet concept works for you.  I'd prefer to free up your units to do something more productive than to fight over a build in Scandinavia.
I just dont know how useful that promise is to me unless A) I can trust you fully B) I'm all in on an English attack. I'm not saying I dont want to be friends with you, I'm just letting you know that the deal seems a bit flat.
So ... you just auto-bounce the Russian in Sweden unless you Sealion?
Look, your tone has me very concerned - you don't seem particularly interested in working with me or exploring the possibilities of us having peace between our units in Scandinavia.  I've been offering you partnership and opportunity from the get-go and not really feeling like there's any reciprocity.  Have you already made up your mind how you want to play your position and I'm wasting my time?  Or are you open to negotiation and finding common ground and working out a way we can cooperate?
Well. You offered to support England against me, so I'm not in a very trusting mood with you. I've also heard stuff from Austria about you that is concerning, so it's not just England pulling a fast one on me. I've said I'm not opposed to working with you - and I'm certainly not opposed to keeping peace between the three of us in Scandinavia. I just cant commit in spring 01 to fight against England when France has sent very little press (and alarming press at that) and the things I am hearing about you are conflicting. Your impatience troubles me even more. Do you always nail down all of your alliances within hours of the game start?
No, but I like to feel other players out to see what they're open to and considering.  I told England that I'd be open to moving on you (Germany), which is true.  I mean, if he had said "yes, let's do it!  You can have Norway, let's lure him into bouncing you in Sweden, but in reality I'll move there while you move to Baltic and make him guess which home center to cover after you move to Silesia from Warsaw in '01 .... " I mean, yeah, I'd probably work with him.
But just because I said that I'd be open to it, doesn't mean I was trying to get him to attack you from the jump.  I also told him what I've told you, which is that I think I need to head south and I'd just like some sort of peaceful arrangement in the north.
So you just admitted that you are still open to working against me rather than with me. So why are you mad at me for telling you from the start that I too am keeping my options open? Just be patient. Let me talk to France.
If you're getting other press from these guys that say that I'm talking about opening against Germany from the jump, and you believe it, then I think we've got some stiff competition for the $10 bounty for "best liar."  My preferred option with Germany is to leave GAL a DMZ, hold with A Moscow, and then use it against whoever lies to me in '01 (covering Warsaw from an Austrian or German in GAL/SIL, going to Norway in England lies to me, or covering SEV if Turkey opens to Armenia).  Maybe you find me too direct, but I thought we were having a conversation and then you got weird.
*with Russia.
I'm not mad at you, I was just reading the tone of your press.  🙂  And i read it correctly, you were worried about me trying to play you based on what you were getting from England and Austria.  I also like to keep my options open and to feel out the other players.  I don't expect other players to turn around and share my press with my opponents, because that strikes me as a poor way to demonstrate one's ability to keep quiet about things.  But thank you for letting me know that England can't be trusted.  That's valuable information.  For what it's worth, Italy is someone you probably shouldn't trust to keep your communications with him quiet, either.
Well I'm glad that we were able to lay that out in the open. And I didn't think you were going to pounce on me from the start, I just see you as an ambitious player, and like I said,  having a strong Russian presence in the north from an ambitious player combined with a hostile England does not bode well for Germany unless Germany has already bolstered themselves in my past experience.
Excellent.  I respect honesty and competent play.  If you can demonstrate both, you'll have my respect - and also a trustworthy partner.
Well I am very happy to see you move southerly. My biggest concern now is France and his movement to Burgundy. Do you have any insight on his plans?
He forced it. Very interesting. He was not very talkative with me, probably because he was focused on chatting with you and England.
I mean, it’s not a super unusual opening. A tad aggressive for my taste, but unusual. I’d say there’s a decent chance he goes to BEL and it’s up to you to figure out what England does. YOR-HOL can be killer.
*not. But not unusual.
If England is going to do that, it’s either a new plan or one he wasn’t comfortable discussing with me. He seemed more interested in Russia opening south than seeking my assistance against you. That could be good for you or it could mean he doesn’t want me around to be able to help you out.
You haven't talked to France at all? Can you talk to him now?
Can do. Would you mind letting me into Sweden?
If I let you into Sweden, you wont build north and you wont attack me?
My offer of fleet Sweden as your proxy still stands. And no, I won’t attack you. I might build A STP, but definitely not F STP/sc
Okay, I'll allow you in, but if you build army st pete then I dont want that unit moving without me knowing where it is going each phase.
Ok. Sounds a little paranoid, but fair. Neither France or England are being forthcoming...
England tricked me. Now I must kill them. I'm building a fleet to use against England. I will support you in the spring if you promise to use that to contest Norway. I apologize for bouncing you, I did it to secure a relationship with England, but he threw that away.
Fleet Kiel, correct?
I looked at the map and see that you only have Berlin open. Thank you for the heads up.
Yes, I can only do Berlin
So, what’s the plan? Do you think you’ve got a friend in France?
To give you my perspective, when I play Germany, I don’t bounce Sweden in ‘01 as a general rule. I wait and see if England is working with me - if he is, taking out the solo fleet is too easy and slows down English gains. If he isn’t, then now I have a potential ally in place to help.  And if England and Russia are going to team up on me, I’m screwed anyway - but at least I haven’t provided Russia with additional motivation.   Now, WAR-SIL changes that math.
Well I see the merit in most of this, I think you are discounting a build in St Pete by Russia. Russia can easily get a second unit North, and then it isn't just a lone fleet in Sweden. I still dont trust France completely, but at this point I have no other choice than to work with you and France. England openly attacked me, and neither you nor France have.
Okay, am I supporting you into Sweden? If you are covering St Pete I'd like to go Sweden to ensure England doesnt get it. Just let me know what to do.
I’m going to Sweden
Awesome, I'm supporting you
Thank you.
Thank you for your assistance.  It would appear that England is coming for you, full bore.  Is France on your side?
Oh thank goodness. It appears France is on my side. Idk why England has it out for me, but it's annoying. I may need you to either go to Norway or support hold Denmark if you can?
Norway is intriguing.  I wish I was in STP right now.  😦
Well at least you have the juggernaut going for you now 😉
This guy ... "let's try to hide it by me pretending to attack you."  👌 😩
no one believes it's not a juggernaut until Russia is in Bulgaria or Turkey is in Rumania.
Austria has asked me to move my units towards you (away from him, I suppose).  How did your discussions with Italy go regarding his unit in Tyrolia?  He seems to have fled south quickly (most likely to convoy over to Syria).
Actually I didn't even talk to him last phase, and the phase before I just said that attacking Austria was dumb unless he was in a wintergreen alliance.
well, that was apparently the way to get him to go south.
Even with my help, you could still lose Denmark.
He has three fleets to attack with. If Denmark holds and Kiel and Sweden support hold, he cant take it.
Oh. Yeah. Math.
For what it’s worth, France hasn’t asked me to move west or anything. So, he’s probably your friend.
That's good to know, thanks
England just sent me a message that says he is going to take Denmark and then stop attacking me because of France... 
Like... what is he doing?
I had an opportunity to DMZ the north, sorry. Though, now that England left North Sea as a retreat location, I might not find Norway such easy pickings ...
hi.  did you want to talk at all?
I mean
Is there any way of me getting your help this phase?
I'm not actually in any of your centers.
But you supported England into my SC after I supported you
what do you want?  would you prefer to focus on england?
I thought I made myself clear that England was my whole focus last phase. Now that you've allied with England against me, I have two people to be mad at now. You attacking me is more understandable than England though
Oh... except you are in Bohemia and Silesia
well, he agreed to dmz the north, as i explained, and then he made the moves to support it.
I am.
Look, it doesn't do me great good to knock you out of the game right away.  I was wondering if you'd be open to a dialogue or are you closed off to any kind of dicussions.
I mean I'm open to discussion, but I'm using most of my efforts with other countries since I feel like I wont be able to get very far this phase with you. In later phases things will change though
My only real bargaining chip is helping you against England in Scandinavia, or supporting you against Austria
How would you suggest going about helping me against Austria?
Well... tbh I am mostly going to be holding this phase. I'm going to Munich though, and if you relieve pressure on me I can continue south and support you there.
I wouldn't mind you disbanding one of your 5 northern troops. Tbh, I dont know why you only have 2 troops protecting your south when Austria and Turkey can both attack you strongly now.
Thought England was interested in working with me against you.  I have no idea why he went for Sweden instead of taking a (guaranteed) support into Kiel.  Sorry.
You're apologizing to me for England not attacking me?
Sure
I’m apologizing for trusting him.
Would you like support into Denmark?
If I order Kiel to Denmark you could take Berlin by force. Once you've backed off my border I'll consider moving my troops in a way other than protecting myself against invaders.
That’s totally fair. I’ll make that a possibility.
what do you want me to build?
An army would be preferable
done.  can we go our separate ways?
Yeah, I'm trying to figure out what Austria and Italy are doing now
well, Italy is about to get desparate for dots.  So, I'd watch your back.
I build the army and would like to head south.  I'd appreciate it if you held off from attacking STP or headed towards Warsaw.  i honestly believe that you have bigger fish to fry and can makes some great headway with your fleets if you head west.
Why are you sending your fleet at me?
Please, if I wanted to attack you I'd go from Norway. Baltic was going to cover Berlin, but now it will bounce in Denmark
classical mid-game mistake, going after Russia instead of Austria.
the problem with weakening Russia at this point - is by the time you shift towards Austria, there's no  way to beat him off - and you can't hold Warsaw and Moscow against him.
He only has 4 SCs
Well, who do you think will get Italy’s
France?
Eye roll
Those two have been cuddle buddies from the jump
Hello germany! I figured we should open up talks
Yes, most certainly. I would very much like to work with you against Russia to keep him from dominating the North, and working against France together would also be great. E/G is one of my favorite alliances to play.
Would you be okay with the idea of me having Hol? The fifth build can be tough for England.
I would very much not be okay with you having Hol, it's an SC directly bordering my home. I can help you into Bel though, or help you against Russia into Sweden or St Pete for that extra SC or 2.
Understandable but worth the ask in my opinion. Not trying to be overly aggressive.
I don’t want to overcommit to attacking anyone this early, but I appreciate you offering support. So you don’t think you and France will be friendly?
As a western power I usually stay undecided as to who I really want to work with during the first year. But generally speaking I prefer an E/G over an F/G or E/F. It just makes dealing with Russia so much easier.
Makes sense I play germany the same way, any time that I am too aggressive or get 6 in the first year I end up getting ganged up on.
So Russia sent me a message asking for a deal. He said if I would help him into Sweden he would support me into North Sea after he takes Norway. This obviously raises some red flags since he is already assuming he will take Norway. I'd be surprised if he wasn't opening Moscow to St Pete.
He told me he wants to open against Germany, and that he would help me into Denmark from Sweden 😂 I didn’t believe him (and voted so) because that is a terrible opening for Russia. Seems like he is a troublemaker
Lol. Yeah, he's the only person I've thumbs downed so far.
So he told austria to his face that he plans on moving into Gal (according to Austria) seems like a wildcard
Have you actually talked to France yet
I sent a message. He just responded. Reading it next.
How’d that go?
Well, he told me he was supporting himself into Burgundy, so uhhhh.... not really liking him so far
Oof, yeah that is aggressive. At least he’s honest?
He could be bluffing. Get me to think that moving to Bur is pointless and that I should stay in Munich. Instead he blitzes north to Pic and takes Bur from Marseilles uncontested. Now he has two units poised to take Bel or possibly attack Munich if I do leave. Either way, telling me that is not good news for me
Yeah it means he will not be friendly. I’ll be in NTH so I’ll be in a powerful position. I’ll be happy to lend support assuming I am cleared to get Nwy. Just let me know
Yeah I think we'll be fine, it's just hard that France and Russia are both playing against us.
We will see what russia actually does, they seem like a wildcard
Well, you are poised to take Norway, and I can bounce Russia out of Sweden. I'd like to take Holland, but you can have Belgium. Unfortunately France did get into Burgundy like he said, so he could either go to Munich or Belgium.
Yeah I am trying to find out for you (discretely) if he will be hitting Munich. Are you actually planning on bouncing Swe? I think it’s a fun move. How do you want to handle the French threat? I might be able to bounce him  in Bel or even take it if he goes Mun like I would expect
In full disclosure, France offered to go to EC and I said I'd love that, fully expecting him to never go there (why would he give up a build to go EC?). France told me that you were lobbying for him to go to Ruhr, which doesn't exactly match up with the last message you just sent me.
If France doesn't go to Bel, Spain, and Portugal I would be very surprised. I'm going to cover Munich regardless, it's too big of a risk to let him in.
That makes sense, that’s annoying that France is trying to split us up. At least I can bounce him in Bel. Are you doing the russia bounce? If I am going to stand with you I need to know if I have to prepare for some Russian anger
Yeah I lied to Russia.
😂😂 sounds good, so how do you want me to play this turn? Hit bel?
You never denied that you told France to go to Ruhr.
I'm too paranoid for this game
I would love it if you went to Bel
I did not tell France to go Ruh, I don’t want that much pressure on you and it would be better for us if he went Bel and I bounced him
Well that was kinda dumb on your part. You knew I was going to Holland, so you didn't get a build AND you made me mad. I was soooooo sold on allying with you all game, but not anymore. Can you please explain your thought process there?
Not sure what I need to explain, I feel like I have more to gain siding with France, especially since you have angered Russia.
Except that France is now at 6 SCs and you are at 4 and I'm much more angry at you. France is in a much better position than you now.
I still dont understand why you are gunning for me. I literally was ready to work with you wholeheartedly and you are attacking me while leaving yourself open to Russia and France who are not exactly helping you back. I guess their lies are more persuasive than my truth...
I stabbed you but now it looks like France is stabbing me. I’m going to stop attacking you after I take Den
Lol. Or you could not take Denmark, protect yourself, and try to stop France.
So if you stop attacking me I will shift all aggression to Russia.
If you want to help stop Russia from rolling me (then possibly teaming up with France against you) I would appreciate Denmark tapping Baltic.
I’d consider it if you could get France off my back
I tried working with you against France at the beginning and you declined. Now it's a bit late, as I warned you before. I can try to get him to back off, but it will be very difficult at this point.
Yeah I’m not saying that we have a full alliance but there’s no reason for me to just help you, especially when it would leave me with 0 allies
Do you have more than 0 allies right now? I wouldn't consider Russia an ally so much as he isn't going to attack you until I'm dead. Russia has turned on Turkey when convenient, turned on Austria when convenient, and Italy thought they were allies when they weren't. Trusting Russia will kill you.
Okay so several countries have come to me saying that you are painting me as not wanting to work with you. That's entirely false. I have made 0 moves against you. You have attacked me. I have asked for your help against Russia, you said you would only do it if I somehow got France to help.
From my point of view I have done everything in my power to work with you, and you are spurning me at any chance you get.
Please stop working against me. Please stop spreading false ideas about me. Is there something I did to personally offend you?
I am not trying to spread lies, I genuinely feel as though you have no interest in working with me. I was under the impression that you said that it was “too late” for us to work together. England/Germany/France is always a 2 on 1, usually with England choosing their side. I played both and decided to go with France mainly because their plan and communication felt better. I chose wrong, and I am paying dearly for it. I apologize for doing so. At this point it feels as though you are working with France, which is inherently against me. If I have read that wrong then I apologize, but for those reasons I could not just go against Russia because in doing so I would cause a 3 on 1. That is why I asked you to get France off of me in exchange, it is the only way I survive. Otherwise it doesn’t make a difference to me if I lose and France wins or I lose and Russia wins.
I am honestly sorry for how our game has started, and I am proposing an alliance between the two of us. I know that it will be hard for you to trust me, but I think that you can see that it is my only option, and so to betray you again would be short sighted and suicidal. If you can’t trust me, then I have no choice but to hope russia wants me as his sidekick given my navel power. I don’t want that to be my role in this game, so I hope that you will consider my proposal.
Thank you for being honest with me now. I'm not working against you at all. I am very interested in working with you, considering that I was the one who approached you and asked to work against Russia together. 
I actually felt like you didn't want to work with me, because you were saying you wouldn't work with me unless France backed off - something I cant control.
I have been talking with France, and I think i might have actually got him properly scared of Russia to back off of you. I'm waiting to hear back from my latest message, but he will only do it if you actually do help against Russia, something I still dont know if i can trust you on.
So how do we do this. I can help you by stopping russia in the north, you can help me by putting some pressure on France so that he has to go home. What do you think about me supporting you into the Bal from Kiel and supporting you into Bel. You push back russia a little, and cost France a build if you cut the Bur support.
Oh so you don’t want to go against France?
I cant attack France with Munich this turn. I will likely lose Munich if I attack Bur, and then that does me no good at all, since I'll be at like 1 SC at the end of the year.
That’s fair, how about that Kiel move then
If Russia moves Baltic into Berlin with support than I have lost Berlin, vacated Kiel, and again I'm down to like 2 SCs. I really do want to work with you, but you and Russia put me in a super super bad position and I pretty much have to hold this phase. I have tried to think of ways around it and I just cant.
Holland is free though
I suppose if I trusted you and France 100% I could use Holland to cover for Kiel
I am sending NTH to Lon this year (I hope it works) which would make you feel better. If you want this to work you will have to trust me.
Honestly I think the best help might just be tapping Baltic for me so that I can hold everything tight this phase, but that's just going to stall everything out, so idk. This game is pretty hopeless for me I'm afraid.
Me as well, I messed up things for both of us and I apologize. Why don’t I just gamble and take Sweden?
Well, BOT is probably going to Sweden, so that also wouldn't be a terrible move
BOT might fill Bal, he thinks I’m getting him into Ber this turn
Where are you supposed to be supporting him from?
Oh... Bal
Yep, obviously I will not though
Okay, yeah, this is good. I think going to Sweden will work best then.
Just waiting to hear back from France now
Same
Well, Russia has a disband and we both kept our SCs this year, so that's good news. France unfortunately still seems intent on attacking you, he never responded to my last message
Russia offered me support into Denmark. No doubt still trying to take Berlin, or maybe trying to get Norway
Yeah this France thing is getting annoying
Hello! Russia sounds like he is opening Moscow into St Pete. Just thought I'd let you know to help you plan.
Hello there! You seem to be certain about that. I wont be making my plans on something like that, you will understand that, I could easily get locked in a deadly war that way.
I'll be honest and say I'm not enthused about seeing Austria get attacked from Italy and Russia, although I am pleasantly surprised seeing Russia open more southerly. I'm not sure what your plans are, but we would both hate to see a wintergreen alliance, which looks very possible right now.
I am not sure what is happening, but you did send wrong info on Russia. Your agenda looks like making me fight Russia. I could if you are willing to commit.
Russia promised me he would help support me into North Sea from Norway, implying he would move north. That obviously didn't happen.
That also implies you don't help England or that you help him to het in Norway in the first place. We definitely should stay in contact and work our way to brighter future.
tought times for you and me
would you be interested in cooperation with me and maybe italy
Yes, but how?
Let england and france fight each other, maybe even side with france to secure land border. I'll try to talk to italy, could you do it also? Austria is a mere vassal so maybe a word, but not too much. Italian army could be very useful if he decides to work with us. After a round or two explain england that russia is behind everything and that you could help him if he turns on russia
Rough idea, but neither I or you have better option. If we do have please say so
So did Turkey stab you?
I am Turkey... LoL
Lol
I meant to ask is Russia stabbed you
If
I would say so now
Do you think you can persuade england to help?
I've been trying to persuade him all game and have done nothing to him but he still attacks me even when France and Russia are gonna clobber him.
England says you are refusing a truce with him
That's false. I asked England for help and he said the only way he would help me is if I stopped France from attacking him. I said I'd try but that that would be very difficult. I reached out to England and he is asking for unreasonable things in return. I have no control over France
Hello there my dear Kaiser! Nice to meet you 😄
Hello, hello. What are your thoughts on an F/G alliance?
Hello hello! I for one would not oppose one, what are your thoughts?
Well, Russia has seemed to be stirring up all kinds of trouble, but he has offered me help against England, so that's a point in favor of an F/G. I would like to at least DMZ Bur in 01
That’s funny, Austria just asked for me to bounce you there so Mun can protect against a potential Tyr invasion
Idk why Austria thinks Tyr is going to be invaded this year
Guess he’s just nervous like he said
Well if you really want to we can bounce
The truth is, I’m supporting Par into Bur so I can make a play at Bel/Pic in the Fall. Since You’ll see I’m telling the truth after Spring, I’ll also say within the same message that I have no intentions of moving into Mun, whether Italy is there or not. There’s no point pissing you off and taking Mun when I can’t even defend it for more than a year, and I value honesty above centers. This might be a rough start to our alliance but I don’t want any fuckery around Burgundy so I’m taking it for myself, and I hope we can work together well afterwards.
Well that obviously makes it difficult for us to work together this year. What is your plan in the fall?
As I've said before, typically use it control Belgium and make sure that England isn't able to convoy an army onto our lands.
Alright, so you actually went to Burgundy. I dont really trust you to stay out of Munich so far, so I'll be covering Munich and you can have Belgium.
What are your thoughts on a delayed FG attack on England?
I'm aware I might have pissed you off a little, and I'd like to change the course of that. I could still move ENG and Bel this season, and we'd have the jump.
Moving to EC would certainly tip me towards working with you more. I hope you understand that I still can't commit this turn though.
Fair enough, I still apologize for Bur. I tried to be as honest and clear as I could, and I hope you see that I'm now dedicated towards a potential alliance between us
I mean, being honest is great, but I need to see honesty and moves that are mutually beneficial. What you did was honest, but not mutually beneficial. EC would be mutually beneficial, now we will see if you are honest.
As much as I would like to go EC I can't without a full commitment. So I guess we can see how Fall/builds play out and go from there, but just know that the option is there 🙂
You could bounce me if you want in Bel, if that would make you feel better/safer. As I've said before, my main priority is making sure England doesn't get an army onto our lands.
You keep saying you want to work with me, but then you say you cant move in a way where we work together. How am I supposed to commit to that?
"I hope you understand that I still can't commit this turn though."
I don't expect you to commit to anything this season which is fair for both you and me
Also England's told me that he'll leak stuff to you. I'm telling you this as a sign of trust hopefully, but if you still don't believe me after all this then idk :/
Fair, although you have made anti-German moves while I have made fairly neutral moves.
I made one move that protects Burgundy and makes sure that BOTH Par/Mar are safe.
I apologize if it seemed super anti-German, and I've said countless times that I don't intend for it to be an anti-German opening.
England really wants me to move Ruh, take that as you will and believe me if you want.
You don't have to intend to be anti German to make moves that are anti German. You being in Burgundy and not in EC is certainly anti German, there is no arguing that. Look, we could talk in circles here, but all I'm saying is that I need to see some moves that are not anti-German before I work with you.
Fair enough, let's circle back next season 🙂
Okay, I'm in. England obviously doesnt want to work with me.
I told you I wasn't going for Mun!
Yes, I know. England tricked me, which means I'm trust you more than him now.
I'm building a fleet. I hope that is enough to gain your trust
I appreciate that a lot, perhaps we can start our cooperation up North
Glad we’ve come so far since Spring 01 😄
So it sounds like England thinks he is working with you. You have a choice to make. Support me into Hol or support England in. What are you going to do?
I won't contest you going into Holland
I guess you could support neither. That would be an interesting move.
Haha
That would certainly be interesting
If I support you into Hol how do you think you'll move your fleets?
Well I'm waiting to hear back from Russia, but I'd like to work with Russia to get England out of Scandinavia. Denmark will likely stay. Berlin is going to Kiel (if I get support). From there I go to Heligoland Bight and put pressure on North Sea (hopefully with Russia and your help).
If I dont get your support or Russias cooperation I'm basically stuck
If you do those moves then I suppose I'm in
Let me know if Russia gets back to you
Will do
Thank you!
England is really gunning for me. Not sure why he opened himself up to you and Russia so much just to come after me
Okay, so I'm gonna have to support Denmark and Holland against England this turn probably unless you think I could use my troops more wisely?
Oh boy. I didn't even see the juggernaut until just now.
Lol... England just said he's going to Denmark and then stop attacking me.
Ahh apologies, haven't been able to check for a while
Yes the Jugg is quite scary and Austria seems quite inept unfortunately
Haha I hope you flagged the "stop attacking me" message from England as a lie 😁
Supporting Ruh-Mun and have Bel S Hol in
Sorry I've been busy. I'm going Ruh-Mun and so I should be good to not lose SCs this phase as long as you support me.
Russia is gonna roll this game I think
Agreed, seems like FGIA vs Jugg and England
Hopefully England will relieve some pressure off you since I'm attacking him
Well I think Russia turned on Turkey to fight Austria now
I mean Italy has an army in Syr, don't see why Russia would open another front and fight Turkey
Regardless let's just grind this out and hopefully we come out on top 😂
Italy thought he was working with Russia too from what I've heard 😂
Good luck against England. Let's hope I can out guess Russia
England said he would help me against Russia if you backed off. Not sure I trust him though
I wouldn't either, wouldn't hurt to at least lie about it and see what he says?
Regardless I hope you trust that I'm with you in the long run 🙂
Yeah, think you can sell him on the lie?
Me? He contacted you but I would probably be able to
Like I told England I would talk to you. If I go to him and said you agreed, he is less likely to  believe it than if we both talked him through it
I suppose we should have a reason you are willing to back off of him so it's more reasonable
Okay, England and I have been talking quite a bit and I think he might come around. If you could just talk to him before deadline and stress that he needs to attack Russia that might get him to do what we want.
England is moving North Sea to London btw
How ya doin?
Good. Just trying to figure out what Austria is doing
Good progress on the western front, now time to swing East 😁 perhaps you can use BAL to get armies into Pru/Lvn, while I’ll send all my fleets south like I have right now and try to stop this Italy/Austria alliance
Yup. Gonna head east/south now. Gotta eliminate Russia next
Some help against Austria would also be appreciated!
That fleet you built is slightly concerning. I'd like it to go to MAO this phase and I'd like to bounce North Sea just for good measure.
Sounds good to me
Ideally it would be in Mar but I need to deal with Pie for the time being
Would you be fine bouncing NWG and NTH this season?
Would be nice if you could somehow slide into Boh, I'd be willing to give you Venice later after I take Rom/Nap
Done and done
Apologies for the move to MAO I thought there was a possibility you would force yourself into NTH. Happy to see your progress East though, let me know what I can do to help 😄
With a force draw in 1910, there's no reason for either of us to stab. Otherwise I probably would have. Move MAO back south and continue bouncing please
I won't stab I just wanted to protect Bel/NTH for 1910 in case you decided to catch up with me to stab me. I'll support hold my units along our border, and would be willing to support you into Tri perhaps if I get into Ven this Spring
Was a fun game though, ggs and thanks for being a great ally 😄
Yeah, working together worked out much better for us than backstabbing worked for any of the others
Friendship always prevails!
Greetings and salutations!  I prefer not to bounce in Galicia - it weakens Austria against Italy since you can't cover Trieste and it means I HAVE to move Moscow to Ukraine, which commits that unit to a southern direction early.  What are you thoughts?
I’m not a fan of fighting Italy or Russia as Austria. Germany will also probably guarantee Tyr. I just want to survive, and you two are capable of picking me apart. Is there some sort of arrangement we can come to with turkey and the Balkans that doesn’t involve me wasting away in the carpathians?
How much of Turkey are you willing to let the Italian have?  I'd like two centers and I'd be comfortable with you having Bulgaria - as long as you were willing to head after Italy next.
Two centers is a lot to give if I’m doing the heavy lifting and then fighting Italy on top of it unless you’re going through Arm? I assumed you’d be going north?
I mean, I'm assuming you've got Italy doing a Lepanto and getting out of position.   When you said an arrangement with Turkey  - did you mean the three of us working together or you and I splitting him up.  'Cause if we split him up, then a 50/50 split seems pretty fair, right?  I'd get two, and you'd get Bulgaria and another.
I meant carving him up. If you take the Armenian opening, I’m fine with a 2 & 1 + 1.
I just need some time to figure out Gal. I can always use Gal to support you into Rum?
The Armenian opening?  What is that?  I've never heard of it.
There’s a couple ways to do it. The most sure fire is F Sev - Rum; A Mos - Sev; A War - Ukr;
F Rum - Sev; A Ukr - Sev; A Sev - Arm
The less sure is hoping you don’t bounce in Black while moving A Mos - Sev —> A Sev - Arm; F Black - Bul EC; A Ukr - Rum.
I think I would prefer to sit back and see what's happening before committing so strongly to an opening like that.
I would prefer if we left Galicia a DMZ, I'm not comfortable with you moving in there in '01.  I think keeping it unoccupied during the game would be best for us to have a partnership.
May I ask what your intentions are with War and Mos? They have to go somewhere, and they both don’t fit down south if you don’t move into Gal or Sev.
I prefer to hold with Moscow and see who's telling me the truth.
Have you been telling people that you’re opening to Galicia? I’ve had several players ask me if I’m bouncing you there.
No, I have not told anyone that I’m moving to Galicia. I’ve even told a couple that I wasn’t going to. The only reason that would happen is if you and I don’t work out an agreement and I have to do a hedgehog.
I would like to stress that my preference is for Gal to be a DMZ with no bounces
I need confirmation from you that you’re staying out of Gal. I don’t want to destabilize things by moving there if you’re not attacking it.
Getting to my phone now.  My preference is to DMZ Galicia as well.
Cool. I’m moving a standard Austrian opening that gives me flexibility with Greece and Italy.
I changed my orders to Galicia because (a) I felt that you waffled back and forth on it and (b) corroboration from other players.
And I’d rather guess wrong and be there myself than guess wrong and have someone else be there.
Who told you I was moving there? I never told anyone that I was moving Gal. I only ever said that I might hedgehog if you kept me in the dark. I’m asking who gave you the Gal info because I want to make sure I don’t get stabbed again.
If you want to try and repair the relationship, will you move A Gal - Rum?
I’m open to that. When I was told you were looking to hedgehog, the word “might” was dropped off. Then I had to google “Austria” and “hedgehog” and .... that’s a low win probability opening IMO.
Yeah, it is, because it means that Austria has no friends and is doomed to die first. I hate it and almost prefer to do a key Lepanto over a hedgehog.
I’ve never willingly participated in a Key lepanto.
I’ve done it twice and it worked, but those were on an android app where people were more likely to do silly things.
I have had one or two forced on me, and in my past 5 or so games I had to fight one off as Turkey.
France benefited from that one.
What’s going on in Tyolia? Was Italy supposed to go to Venice as well?
Nothing good is going on. That was an unnecessary move
Well, unnecessary if you’re going to parent with him, yes. I left Galicia and that should give us some space to work together, if you’d like to make a suggestion.
I’m thinking. I’ll have to get back to you. Italy and France getting 3 builds presents a bit of a pickle.
I think an EF is good for you.
Hey, I’ll be back online around 7 pm est. if you’d like to talk about how we proceed with respect to The balkans.
Would you mind sharing why you picked A War over A Mos?
Yes. England asked me to build there.
He’s asked me to go after Germany with him.
Turkey, of course, is asking me to send it to Galicia. Which is why I’d really like to talk to you about the balkans
France is going to eat up most of those gains if you pressure Germany from the west, and then take England easily. France has the largest navy and no real threats. That being said, your relations with the West are none of my business.
What do you think about F Sev - Arm,  A Ukr - Sev, A Rum S A Ukr - Sev, A Serb S A Rum hold
Depending on how the spring shapes up, I will be able to act more directly against the Turks.
That seems like a horrible set of orders.  Why not suggest that I cut BLA with SEV and either you support me into Bulgaria or I support you into Bulgaria?  It sounds like you're trying to get me out of position and slow Turkey down while you work with him.
I’m not meaning to push you out of position. Turkey built F Smy and is probably going to hit Greece and move his armies up behind him. If he does that, he’ll have to either rush losing Ank or cede control of Black. I’m hoping to have a more certain lay of the land after spring and expect to be in a place where I can help take down Turkey. If I attack Turkey now, I’ll lose what little advantage I have over turkey. I’m not putting my foot down and saying I’m committed to the orders I suggested. If you are totally opposed to my order suggestion, we can keep talking.
If the Italians scare me, I don’t want to worry about you or Turkey. If the Italians keep their word, I’ll be fighting Turkey, not you. That’s why I want you to shift East
Ok.  Explain to me why you're in the Ionian and not in Greece?
I'm just very confused why you would  go there instead of Greece  - I understand the need to self-bounce in Budapest, but the move to Ionian confuses me.
There are two reasons for Austria to have a fleet in the Ionian in Spring 1902. The first is for Austria to attack Italy. The second is to make it seem like Austria is attacking Italy when really the target is in either France or Turkey. I didn’t go for Greece because Turkey said he wasn’t going to go for it last year and leaving it open bought me some good will. Also, I wasn’t sure if you and Italy  were going to screw me, so I tried to avoid upsetting any of you. Regardless of if you believe me, Turkey’s Armenian flank is exposed and I’m not in a position to attack you because I built in Trie and  Hungary / Bud is unoccupied.
Also, I didn’t move into Gal at the start of the game, like I promised and took you at your word when you said you moved into Gal because of bad intel.
alright.  well, I think you've put yourself way out of position.  Turkey has asked me to support his attack on Serbia, and I'm going to, so if Italy taps you in Trieste and Turkey is telling me the truth, you'll lose it.  Let's be honest with ourselves, if both Italy AND Turkey want to attack Austria, Russia is pretty much always going to join in.  Maybe Turkey is lying to me and is going to work with you to force Rumania or something.  I doubt it though.  I wish you the best of luck and i'm sorry if things turn out super bad for you.  In the future, if you ever get the idea to do anything with your fleet other than use it to take greece - you need to crush that good idea fairy quickly.  Turning it into an extra army through a build is super, super important.
I wish you had defended against the attack I described to you.  Unfortunately, you didn't.  Any suggestions ?  You're about to go down a unit.
You can switch sides and hit Bul instead of me? Italy has access to Smyrna and the Turkish right flank is still open. A Rum - Bul, F Sev - Arm, A Gal - Ukr, a War - Ukr? You can pick up Bul and Ank before anyone else is able to mess around.
You’ll also be able to build another southern fleet if you wanted to
I mean, this would work a lot better if you had held Serbia.
Why didn't you support yourself to hold?
Because you telling me you’re going to hit a certain territory only lets me know I need to defend something, and not what territory in particular, so I turtled.
I suppose I could have been trying to slip into GAL and  BUD while getting you to just order mutual support orders ... but I prefer to order supports to moves I know will go through.  I guess I projected that onto you instead of putting myself in your - understandably - paranoid shoes.
I’ve trusted you before but trusting you and Italy at the same time was more than I could do. I tried to signal the blue water Lepanto without outright telling you. Do you have any suggestions?
Next time, don't do a blue water lepanto.  I played face-to-face on Sunday as Russia and Austria and Italy tried to do a blue water lepanto.  I probably could have soloed, but I didn't build a fleet sev.
Now, a suggestion more specific to this game?  Let me look at the board.
It was that or die in year one. Italy opened asking for a key. I’ve never worked well in an Austro-Turkish alliance and the rest almost pushed me to a hedgehog. I did what I could.
Ok, that's a tough situation.
And then the asshole in Russia opens to Galicia.  It's enough to drive a man to drink.
I had a bit of tequila tonight...
Ok, here's a thought - what if you support me into Serbia, I move my fleet SEV-RUM, and then build a second southern fleet.  In the next year, I crush into Bulgaria, you backfill Serbia and take Greece - rebuilding all the way.
I know it's not ideal for you, but ... you did the blue water lepanto, why not try this?
Yeah, I’ll take a fleet in Rum all day.
Where do Gal and War go?
West?
Or I could support myself to hold.
you probably can't afford me lying to you on this one and then doing something with the units that leaves another center exposed..
I’m losing a center, I’d prefer Gal cleared. If you have to eat Germany then fine. England is off balance if they plan on working with France instead of bottling up in Nth, and that alliance has to fall apart.
I have GAL-BOH ordered.
Is war going Sil or back filling Ukr or something? I know you could just lie, but I still feel like it’d be negligent for me to not ask.
Actually, I could lie to you.  But I have given it some thought.  I think you genuinely want to work with me.  and I actually want to work with you (not a big fan of Turkey making so many gains!).  I will move WAR-SIL as well.
I’m pretty sure Turkey is covering Smyrna (and I’m pretty sure you’re convoying Apulia to Syria
You going to keep your southern fleet or give up on the med?
I’m weighing the f sev build because I don’t know if we need two fleets back there. Thoughts?
You coordinated the shift to Serb & Greece with turkey and didn’t need my support. If you don’t build it, I’ll assume your 1902 dealing was in bad faith.
Ok. I see your point. But I cleared Galicia.
I’m asking if you really think that we need two Russian fleets.
And, well ... you know what? Yes. Yes we do. Because that’s what it will take for us to have peace.   (I ask the right to revisit this pending Germany’s retreat order).
You can’t clear the Black Sea without a second fleet. You have two armies on Germany’s border, but if we have to revisit it after the retreat, then that’s what we have to do.
You know, with Italy SO far out of position, you could just run in on him.   And yeah, I'll build the second fleet.  if anything, it will give you and I three fleets in the Med, which will be useful for after you take on Italy.  Which is going to happen at some point, right?  Otherwise, I'm not really sure where you'd go.
Obviously, we need to resolve what's going on in the Balkans, etc.  But, I find it useful and beneficial to discuss the long term picture with allies.  And, after my moves and the build I'm about to make, I'd like you to consider me an ally - or at least a potential one.  What are your impressions of Italy - is he a straight shooter with middle management written all over him?  Do you think you can trust him or work with him after Turkey is cracked?
I had to build up North, unfortunately. I still think I can slip into the Black Sea. He’s going to be focused on the south, I’m pretty sure.
Was the bounce in Vienna prearranged?
It doesn’t look like it was, with the fleet move to Adriatic.
The bounce was prearranged
For what it’s worth, Italy told me that he was going to attack you this past turn.
But, with respect to our border, let’s take BUL  and Greece off of Turkey this turn.
Not sure what we’re doing together.
I will (waste) a turn and order defensive moves.
Do you have any interest in improving your position and/or playing Diplomacy?  I'd like to work with you, but you're making it extremely difficult by ignoring my messages and not making any suggestions.
I would like to head south.  If you could head in a direction that isn't warsaw, I think that we could work together.  Are you still tied to working with Italy or are you open to another path?
So... care to work together? I could use some help to keep Germany out of Warsaw.
I can’t support you against the Germans directly, but I can help against Turkey and stay out of Sev, freeing up another unit?
I don't understand why you can't help against Germany.  If it's a "I want to work with him" thing, he will head after you once he's done with me.  If it's a "I've got something else for UKR to do ... "  then you're lying to me.
That’s really frustrating what Italy just did to you. It’s too bad that you’ continued to work with him instead of helping me defend against Germany.
Now, I can’t hold anything north of STP. That is, until France attacks him.
I mean north of Sev.
Are you able to work with me against Turkey?
Because I’d like to assume you’re done working with Italy.
Would you like to try to work together here?  I haven't attacked you the entire game.  I've been asking you for help.  You've also only replied to one message from me in the past month.
I'd be willing to offer you support into Warsaw.
Ok. If we don’t all work together, France our Germany will win.
How are you going to bury the hatchet with turkey?
I don't see why that's necessary.
Also, because you let Germany take Warsaw, they're already past the stalemate line.  There's really nothing we can do to stop them.
What we need is for one of them to turn on the other and try to get a solo.  But, me and Turkey patching things up is really inconsequential to the whole thing.  Especially since he disbanded a fleet.
My game was ruined the moment I didn't guarantee Berlin for myself and instead counted on England to accept my support into Kiel.  And then England TOTALLY fucked my game up.  Italy going after Sevastopol instead of Turkish or Austrian dots didn't help either, and neither did you galavanting into fucking Ukraine for no good reason.
I can't fucking believe people are getting paid to play in this game as a study on communication, and no body is fucking communicating.  Total shit show, but that's what you get when you recruit randoms off of reddit.
Anyway, this has basically turned into a game of gunboat, with you going weeks between replying to my messages, Italy never responding, Germany never responding, Turkey never responding, and England never responding.
And I fully expect to hear back from you sometime after Thanksgiving, based on your track record.  And, you'll probably fucking lie to me again and screw your own position up even more in the process - since that seems to be your preferred style of play this game.
The game has been rocky for everyone. I stopped responding to you on purpose at the start and then shifted into a screw out after Italy didn’t do anything for three turns
So, what are you doing with Ukraine?  Right now I have Moscow supporting it to Warsaw, let me know please.
I'm also supporting myself into Bulgaria, I suggest you use Bulgaria to take Greece.  Or cover Budapest.  Your call.   I'd like to finish off Turkey in this go around if you please.
So, to wrap things up ... I've offered you support into Warsaw and  asked you to work with me against Turkey ... and your response has been that we need to start working together.  But, you haven't indicated in any way shape or form what you plan on doing or what you'd like to do together.  So, basically ... I'm in the same god damned situation with respect to trying to work with you, in which I've proposed things we can do together, asked for your help or feedback, and received nothing but silence in a game where you are getting PAID TO TALK.  What the actual @!#%, man?
I have to hit Gal because of Germany. I can not move into War from Ukr because of the retreat order.  Moving from A Rum - Bul shift your units further out of the German front and will speed the collapse.
I propose

F Black - Rum
A Rum - Ukr
A Ukr - Gal
A Mos - War
I'm not comfortable leaving the black sea and I'm appalled that you would suggest it.  You are continuing to demonstrate no interest in actually working with me.
I will, however, not attack Bulgaria and move to Rumania Ukraine, as you've requested/suggested.
*Rumania to Ukraine.
Ok. Works for me.
what are you doing with Bulgaria?
It isn’t moving.
ok ....
If Turkey moves Greece out, then I’ll move it. I’m trying to move towards the front
is it supporting yourself into Greece?  Is it suppourting CON to hold?
what front?
GErmany is already past the stalemate line.
you can't actually slow him down.
Are you formally included in the Franco German alliance? If not, then that’s a front. He’s about to move units into position to take Mos
FRance is already past the stalemate line.  you can't actually slow him down either.  What we need to so, in order to survive this game, is to consolidate and defend what we can.
If I can get another build, and you can get another build, then we can actually slow Germany down.  My build would come from CON and yours would come from Greece.  Can your unit in Bulgaria support me from BLA-CON?
I still don't think we can stop him, but we can slow him down and maybe get France to attack him.  THEN the game opens wide
And ... I forgot to click submit on my orders update. 😞
But.   You supported con to hold. Fuck you, bro. I’ll throw the solo to Germany if I can.
Cool
Oh, ha!  There's only one game year left.  None of this shit actually matters.
We get paid either way and I think the gm said something about a minimum of five centers because of the chat snafu.
I mean, I'm a little pissed off that you've lied to me since 1902, but ... 🤷‍♂️
minimum of five centers?
Mostly just ghosted you. Everything through 1902 was being “sharp “ with my promises.
No idea what sharp means.  And  no idea why you felt is was appropriate to "ghost" someone in a game where you are being paid to communicate with other players.
I'm thoroughly unimpressed by a lot of the play in this game, and even more so in the quality of communication.
Think of sharp conduct as a technically correct, malicious compliance type behavior. Legal, but pushing the boundary towards fraud.

Not responding to something is often a good tactic. If you can’t say anything nice at all then don’t say anything at all. If answering a question or asserting a position is disadvantages to being uncommitted and silent, then be silent.
Oh, I totally understand the value in the cold shoulder.  But you accepted $40 to play in a game of Diplomacy that would evaluate the honesty of your correspondence.
in order to keep moscow, what is your suggestion?
What a clod you are. How in blue fuck does keeping Turkey in the game benefit you in the least.
Hello there! I realize we may not have a ton to talk about but I’m curious about your opinion of the game in general. Also maybe what you think is going on with Italy and Russia.
I have an opinion on that topic, having received press from both, but I’m curious about why you’d ask?
Wanted to know if russia will be playing the north at all. Obviously you can keep things to yourself if you wish
I don’t have any information on the north, but depending on what you’ve heard about the Italians, I might be able to make some informed guesses about the north’s fate, which I could/would share with you in exchange for that info.
Italy didn’t give me anything to be honest with you but he may in the future. I’d be interested in an exchange but don’t want to lie to you and give false info. I’ll let you know if I learn something.
Thank you. I’ll let you know if I hear anything about the north
Silence from Turkey, Russia is aggressive, and Italy is still a mystery. Those three things make me think juggernaut. What are your thoughts?
Italy seems to be playing it slow or not sharing their thoughts, either way a smart way to play Italy since it’s a little weaker. Turkey is silent on my end as well but there is a lot of time for that. How is russia being aggressive? I have heard an aggressive message from him and have also been leaked an aggressive message that he sent to Germany (allegedly)
Strongly declared an intention to march into Galicia. I think the hedgehog is the most popular Austrian opening, so I don’t know why Russia would make that obvious play. I hope Italy isn’t trying to navigate a juggernaut by hitting me. That’s a sure fire way for Italy to lose. I collapse, Turkey gets a navy, France gets bored and pushes the med to stop turkey, and Italy gets trapped in the middle.
Seems like kind of a dummy. He told you all of this?
Yes
So he has told me that he wants to march on Germany. He told germany he wants to push the north against me. Seems like a wildcard
Hey, sorry about this. I misread his press about Gal. He prefers not to bounce there. I feel like an idiot and am going to blame using discord instead of backstabbr.
I could have kept that to myself and profited, but I didn’t because I value your info.
Hahaha okay I appreciate the transparency. Hopefully he doesn’t come for me in the north
I’ve heard that France is thinking of forcing Bur. Is that true? I would much prefer that didn’t happen. If it is so, is there anything you can do to stop it?
Yeah, France confirmed that it is true. That means he’s probably committed to moving F Bre - MAO, and that you could take the channel. At a minimum, you can use the channel as leverage for Bel.
Yes I have heard that he is forcing Bur, why’re you worried about France though? I’m not sure if I will enter the channel
I’m worried about Germany and I’m worried about Russia.
Well we will see what happens
Regarding Germany and Russia:
France getting 3 centers in 1901 and building that many fleets means it’ll be hard for you to work with him in the long-term. Also, Russia is planning on moving into the Carpathians and Hungary, and Turkey‘s build, in my opinion, can only mean that Turkey is not concerned with Russia, because Turkey’s right flank is now completely exposed.
If you can provide token assistance to Germany and hold Irish and the channel, then you can probably convoy to the north and push on Russia up there while most of Russia’s units fight with me. I think this is in our best interests because France dominating the seas isn’t compatible with England in the long run, and a Turkey Russia alliance is quite difficult to stop.
I don’t want to go against russia right now, I think me doing so is merely in your best interest
OK. If a Juggernaut does indeed unfold, your support would be appreciated. I wish you luck with the French fleet.
Of course, if they seem to be a massive threat then I will respond
France is moving fleets around Spain and getting in position to stab. Russia is also going to hit Germany from the east. If you keep attacking Germany’s north, you’ll gain Denmark and lose Yor etc. I’m bringing this up because I have an interest in Germany living, but at this point, so do you.
Yeah I see what France is doing
Do you also see what I mean about the juggernaut? It is happening and they are set to reach the stalemate before you all can even get close to resolving the west
Yes but there isn’t anything I can do, germany is too irrational to side with me after I initially sided with France against him. If he were to agree to a truce then it would be different
I hate not being able to conference chat.

You and Germany are about to be eaten by France and Russia. Have you considered coordinating moves in BalS or Bel?
Germany and I figured some stuff out, he’s pissing me off though because he’s scared to stab France, still working on that.
Hey turkey. I’m just saying hi and wondering what your thoughts are on Rum and Gre? Serb is traditionally Austrian territory and Bul goes to Turkey. I’m just wondering how the Russian situation is going to shake out. Also, would you be open to sharing information you hear about me with me in exchange for Russian intel?
Hi, I am willing to work with you, at least in the intel sharing part. I would be happy if we split Rum and Gre in a way that steers us away from each other.
I can’t speak to the split now, but if we do split it me Gre you Rum, I propose that you only put Fleets in Rum and I only put armies in Greece. If you’d rather I put a fleet in that’s OK too
That is reasonable but then that would mean you and Italy fight while it is me against Russia. What about a reverse? I get Gre? Would that work for you at all?
Why does being in Greece commit me to the Italian front? Galicia is crucial to taking Russia.
Because what will italy do in that case? He is the eastern power and he will definitely be looking for greece for himself. Also if you take greece and then commit to fight russia, ehat do i get from that? You got easy greece for you while I have to fight for everything. Hopefully you understand my point here.
That’s fair. It’ll also make more sense for me to not mess around in Greece and build an army while you focus navy. If we structure our build types well, we can keep the relationship fairly balanced. I think I might be able to sneak some Italian gains early on and am considering moving that direction if Russia stays out of Gal in 1901. If it works, you won’t have to worry about a Lepanto.
Okay, how this might go then if Russia enters Galicia? That could be a trouble for you and trouble for me
I don’t think that’s going to happen. If it does, I’ll be able to survive long enough for England, you, or Germany to distract him. You could always open to Armenia?
I’m moving my fleet to Alb not for Greece but for Italy. Just a heads up
Russia has indicated that he is not going to move F Sev - Rum. Just letting a friend know so that you can bounce him.
Okay I will go for Rum, but he is probably going to support himself there, so I reckon Galicia is safe.
You’re not going to take Greece this turn?
Well, you are already locked into fight with Russia....
I will go for greece
Not going to try for Rum?
No, you are already involved with Russia.
Do you want support into rum
Wow, you really think I would fall for that?
I am genuinely surprised by your support to Serbia. Do you care to explain or anything?
Russia asked for it
And you simply accepted? It is unusual
He put a fleet in Rum and cleared Gal, which makes Bud fairly safe.
But he and italy both moved towards vienna, they could be working to take you out
Could be. If that’s the case, I’m dead anyway.
Looks you're alive
Are you ready to work together against italy and russia?
Seriously, both of us are getting screwed by our "allies". Former allies. Why do you continue to fight me?
Yeah, ok
You can convoy out of Greece. I won’t touch it.
I’ll support Con to hold?
Hey, Russia is throwing a fit and is going to try and force me out of Bul. Can you do anything to help?
You can cut his support from ukr
I have to hit Gal because of Germany
Can you support Bul?
He says he won’t hit Bul, so you can convoy Gre elsewhere if you want.
I think Germany will focus on moscow
How are your standings with italy
Hallo there Austria 😄
Hey. Would you mind asking Germany to bounce in Bur? I want him to have an army in Mun to scare off the Italians, and if he’s going to be stuck in Mun bouncing Bur he might as well guarantee Tyrolia.
Sure thing I can ask him, but given that you two should be best friends I don't see why it would hurt for you to ask him too
I did ask him. Just trying to ensure I’m protected from Italy. I’m a very nervous Austria player.
Trust in your diplomacy skills 😄
I’ve heard that you plan to force Bur.
Yes, but I do not intend to attack Germany with it. If I'm telling the truth about forcing Bur I'm telling the truth about not attacking him.
That sets you off balance if Italy moves F Nap - TyrS or to Pie
Well yes that would suck quite a bit. We all know how long the battle for the Southern Med takes however, I guess we'll see if the Pope is into that.
The F Nap - TyrS opening is rare, but checks in Pie are not. Even if he doesn’t hit Mar, he could let Bur move into it, removing the ability for you to build a fleet there.
What do you want me to do instead? Is Italy coming towards me this Spring?
I don’t know what Italy is doing.
Well what should I do then. Are you just worried about your ally Germany?
I’m worried about a lot of stuff not in the western triangle. You all seem much more rational than Turkey, Russia, and Italy. A juggernaut is a possibility as is an opening to sil. Across the board, I’m pushing for predictable play in 1901 so that I can make an informed decision about who to work with. If everyone goes with openings that are used < 20% of the time, then, especially as Austria, I’m screwed.
Just hedgehog and see what happens. Can't really do much as Austria unfortunately.
Are you with Italy or against Italy? Having a fleet in the ION is pretty useful regardless 😄
I’m not sure yet. Lots to think about.
Agreed haha
The juggernaut is happening
You want a piece of Venice? 😉
I heard its lovely in the Fall
Italy screwed up with too many missed turns. I’m going to get the hammer dropped on me if I don’t start playing ball with you.
Hi there! I always feel like it’s important for russia and england to have a good relationship. I have played too many games where they get in an unnecessary fight that never really helps either one in the long run.
Do you want to go after Germany? How agressive do you want to be?  Any suggestions?  I'm open to an early attack on Germany.
I’m always cautious about going in with Russia on Germany, it’s not an ideal opening for them which makes me cautious. Are your relations with Austria and turkey good enough that you can do that?
Not sure!  i actually haven't heard anything from Turkey yet.
So your plan is to move on germany? Or was that just a proposal? And neither have I
No, I said I'm open to moving against Germany.  You said that you didn't want to fight each other in the North and that we should have a good relationship.  If you were going to move against Germany early, I was letting you know that I would join with you.
Makes a lot more sense. I would ask what you think about the south but you haven’t even heard from Turkey yet.
I think I'm going to have to commit most of my forces to the South.  Perhaps our best way to partner is to agree to work with each other in principle, if anything to keep Germany from growing in the North.
That sounds perfect to me and makes a lot more sense. We can always look to be more involved in the future
Good. 😊 have you heard anything from Germany with respect to his feelings towards Russia? Do you think he’ll bounce me in Sweden?
I haven’t asked him, we have been talking though.
No need, just curious
Pretty standard openings. Burgundy was a tad aggressive, though. Thoughts?
Didn’t seem like there was anything crazy, I agree that Bur was a little aggressive, especially with the support. I’m going to try and monitor that situation
Germany just commented to me that he is “in position” to bounce you in Sweden. If he plans to do so would you be interested in messing with him?
Sure! What do you have in mind?
What do you think about you letting him get into Swe, you go into Bal, and I take Den. You would get bounced from Sweden anyways and this gives us good position on him later. And I would obviously get you Sweden in the future.
Do you think he’s bouncing me? If he’s going to, I’d be interested in those moves.
Yes he has confirmed to me that he is
I see you built a fleet in London.  Do you have any concerns about a France that is getting so big?  When I get three builds as France, I prefer to waive one or two of them, but that's my personal preference.  Let me know if you think you'll need an extra build to keep him at bay - I'm not averse to loaning people centers if it's to keep someone from running away with the game.

I assume you're planning on attacking Germany.  Clearly, I should have trusted you about Sweden - but I heard what I wanted to hear from Germany and believed the wrong person.  Lying is not something you can recover from easily in this game.
If you do want to go after Germany, I would like Sweden.  And, obviously, would prefer if you didn't slip into STP while it is undefended.
(and, obviously, I would be willing to help out from the back side - maybe we get you  into Denmark this Fall?
Yeah I am not going to go into StP, my moves will help you trust that. I understand not trusting me last round, that’s why I didn’t go through with it since you didn’t give a hard confirmation. I would love support this fall but like you said I will be mobilizing this spring.
How is your situation in the south? Any thoughts on austria and Turkey?
They are my neighbors and we’ll probably be squabbling over supply centers before too long.
I would like SKAG to be the mover. Can we do that?
What's with France moving to the Channel?
I think you have an FG coming your way.  But you have my help.  I won't go into any of your centers unless you invite me in.  This is partly selfish, because I know that as soon as Germany and France are finished with you, Germany is headed my way.
Ok. I’m meeting someone for dinner but will check this before adjudication. Right now I’m supporting Skag to Denmark. If I was France and anti-English, I’d convoy Gascony to Wales.
Yes I can send SKA to Den, the rest of my units will prep for a French stab
That worked out well. France’s fleets will be annoying but you don’t have to disband.
Yeah I trust you won’t take Nwy?
Correct. I’m not going to cripple you.
can you support SWE-BAL from DEN?
Yes
ordered.  I might regret the second fleet up there, but - if things don't work out for you against France, it might come in handy for you/us.
Yeah I need to figure out that whole situation
To guarantee Berlin, I need Kiel cut. I’m planning on ordering BAL- KIE. If Denmark were to support it, it could possibly go.
North Sea to Holland would guarantee itt, but you might have other plans for that unit.
I can cut Kiel, have you talked with France at all?
Haven’t. I’ll support you into Kiel.
Why? Why would you lie about cutting kiel?
I was even supporting you in.  you could have gotten a build.
I'm really pissed off, because I could have easily cut Kiel myself and guaranteed my staying even.  Instead, you lied to me and fucked me.  When you've got French fleets off of Liverpool, I don't understand why you'd do that, but fuck you bro.
And don't give me the bullshit "I said I "can" cut Kiel" means anything other than I'll move on Kiel.  Not only did you not move on Kiel, you tried to take Sweden off of me.   What are you thinking?  You think a two fleet Germany is going to be your long-term friend? We could have had him down to two fucking centers with you getting a build.  And you went for Sweden?!? What the fuck were you thinking?  Seriously, I want to know, so that I can understand why you would waste my time like this.
Okay first off, relax. Betrayal is part of this game. You were looking really strong, and I couldn’t just allow you to take over germany because then I would be sandwiched between you and France without really getting builds myself. And before you say you would have let me have some German SC’s, I can’t trust you on that. I need germany on my side of I’m going to get France off my back, and honestly I don’t know why I feel like I need to explain anything to you. England Russia alliances never work well for England, and I need an ally in the west. Since France is intent on attacking me I need germany.
I was getting you into Kiel. You made a bad decision, you ruined my game, and you can go fuck yourself.
Will do, good luck with the rest of your game
Thanks! Hope you have a great rest of your game too.
I’m still frustrated that you fucked me over and totally played yourself out of the game.
I would prefer to bounce in the Black sea, unless you're interested in doing something like blowing up my fleet.
I am interested in both, but for sake of any alliance I'd go for a bounce.
I agree, that's probably for the best.  let's see what our neighbors do in '01, perhaps it will open up some opportunities.
Yes of course. The smartest move is that. But I would like to work with you the most because AT alliance won't work past 1903 and IT is just a wild card for me. I am not saying we should do Juggernaut but maybe Juggernaut Lite, sort of.
Jug light it is!
Good morning! I’d prefer not to bounce again, but want to know what you’re thinking.
I plan on sending UKR—RUM and would appreciate your support. We should be able to get you a dot or two next year (Bul and/or Gre)
I already have Bul, could you support yourself in Rum?
I meant Serbia.
I can and will. What are your thoughts on the Black Sea?
If I don't move there it could be obvious to others we are allied. But combined with my attack on Rum it could assure others we are indeed fighting.
Do you still think we need to mask a partnership? In my experience, playing it cute doesn’t really mask anything and runs the risk of ceding momentum. If you’re going to attack Rumania then I have to move Gal to guarantee it and now I’m not in Gal anymore and we don’t have position on Austria.
I think Austria could be very surprised by my stab, and you could let me in Bla if you trust me
If Austria would be surprised by it, what’s the point? What is it accomplishing? It doesn’t put you or us in position to attack him and seems like a total waste of time.
Hi! Haven’t had a response to this message?
If he gets to trust me it could lower his guard a bit
Ok. We’ll do it your way!
I am still taking to him trying to sniff out info
Do you think Austria and Italy are doing a blue water lepanto? I think if assistance into Rumania was promised, you were lied to. I’d like you to build in the south and move your fleet towards the people who are lying to you. I’m willing to support you into Serbia, if you’d like.
No, i wasnt promised rum at all. I have been honest to you, but yes it could be they are working together. Serbia sounds Juggernaut-ish and it is fine with me.
Oh. Well. I’d prefer to be in Galicia, but that’s not how things turned out. At least you’re not in Armenia or someplace unrecoverable. Rumania will support Bulgaria to Serbia.
Ok, I will use Bla to support con to bul
I would prefer it if you moved BLA-CON. Would you mind doing that? I will not move SEV.
I can see how you’d be concerned about Rumania and Serbia teaming up on Bulgaria. Because I haven’t discussed this set of moves with Austria, I didn’t consider it a threat you needed to protect against. I’m not trying to set you up, but I understand if you feel the need to protect your gains. Please also understand that I’d like to avoid THREE Turkish units surrounding Rumania.
Also, please bear in mind that had we dispensed with the cloak and dagger of your move on Rumania and just went at Austria, you’d be at 5 and I’d be in Galicia.
I would like to think that I have demonstrated my trustworthiness  to you.  I have made a concerted effort to tell you the truth at every juncture.  (I hope you've been giving me the thumbs up! 🙂 )  Anyway, how do you want to proceed?  I don't think you want Italy getting Greece.  How about you take it with Serbia and I try to slip in to Serbia behind you?  That way we both gain.  You  can have Serbia long term, I figure I'll take the rest of Austria, help you crack Italy, and then move more north while you pour into the med.  If you need a center here or there to stay even, we can do that.
I would rather support you in Budapest if that works for you. I am unsure about my fleet, should I defend Smy or take Gre, tgey could go with safer option of convoying to syr
Personally, I think they’ll convoy to Syria ... but that’s a big one to be wrong about.
Here’s the thing, you supporting me into Budapest won’t work. He’ll triple support it and it will bounce. If you support yourself to Greece, it’s guaranteed to work. And then I’ll probably pick up Serbia.
I’d really like to continue working with you, but we should both gain from our partnership - not only you gain. I think that’s fair, do you see it differently?
Okay, after a bit of thought, i could do that if i get ser later
100% yes.
I will attack north with it and you can backfill, no problem. Either Austria will disband his fleet and you’ll be in the catbird seat in the Med or he’ll disband an army and he won’t be able to stop you walking into Serbia.
That worked out well. Of course, you were right about your suggestions. I did not predict that Austria would move so dangerously after turtling up last turn.
Ok. I asked Austria for support into Serbia (figured he’d assume I was going anywhere BUT Serbia).  I’m more than a little surprised by his moves. His disband will be very telling.
I am very surprised and concerned about his moves. I will definitely have to check those out.
Why did you move to Black Sea?
Since we didn’t bounce, clearly a mistake on my part. I misinterpreted your silence incorrectly.
Okay, you will fall back now
Think we can get Austria to do something about Italy?
Hardly, we can try and hope for the best
i mean ...  I know he's only in my dots, but ... eventually he's got to go somewhere.  And it's super bad for you.  Would you mind helping me out a little bit?
I am, what do you want me to do?
eventually help me get back Rumania.  But I will order SEV to do whatever you want.
Let's roll these guys.  Austria is out of position, Italy is pulling two.  It'll be a late start, but we can definitely Juggernaut.
I'll admit, waiving that build was a bold strategy.  But, I can dig it.  Let's work together.
Hallo there my dearest Tsar! Still figuring this messaging system out haha
France, what's up my friend?  Do I have anything to worry about from my neighbors?  Would you tell me if I did?
Of course I would, and I haven't heard anything yet. I may have heard some plan involving taking out England early? Unsure 😉
I suppose you really wanted to be in burgundy! What’s next? Would you like assistance?
Assistance would be nice, depends what form it comes in though 😄
Nicely done.  Do you plan on helping England against Germany?  If you'd like, the three of us could take down Germany together, and then you and I team up on England.  What are your thoughts on this general strategy?  If you agree, we can figure out the specific tactics as we go along.
I’m up for it, although curious about who takes what and how we’ll go about it. Would love to hear you and England’s thoughts!
Didn’t England bounce him in Holland?
Yes I believe so
So, I’d say he’s anti-Germany.
Yes I wasn't questioning that
Ok.
Are you ... are you shifting towards England?
Trying to get Germany’s allegiance, don’t worry I moved to Bur for a reason
Would you like to coordinate on Munich?
And, if you could suggest to Germany that he retreats to North Sea, he could help you against England.
Not sure what was the last message that went through to you.
Oh man ... you've got a germany problem and your fleets are headed the wrong way.
i got an AI problem 🤷
you just took another unit off of him.
You should be working with Austria against Germany, in my opinion.
Then what about Italy?
he'll die on the vine.  he either keeps his army out East and disbands a unit defending his homeland or he disbands the unit in the East... and loses another dot.
Idunno man I’m trying to help Turkey too but you made it a lot more difficult haha
Turkey can't help against Germany, tho.
Turkey can’t stab me like Italy can tho
Italy will inevitably start to swing west if the Austrian alliance holds
right.  where do you think I want to go?  Obviously west - into Germany and Austria.
let's see what Italy disbands.
it would be lovely if you headed at Germany.  he's most likely going to send two armies at Warsaw, so he's going to keep building.  But, you can just walk into NTH and/or NWG Sea and just hammer him.
Are you freeing Germany up to attack me? Or do you have any interest in “rounding the horn” into Munich, now that you’re past Switzerland?
Hi there! What’re your thoughts on the board to start? I realize we don’t have any negotiations to make but I always like to get to know what people are thinking
Hello! As a corner buddies, I am certain we will work sometime in the future, perhaps to establish a stalemate line.
Just so you know I have heard that russia is planning on moving south, not sure if that is on you or on austria
Well, nothing unusual there. To be honest here Germany is saying me quite opposite of what you have said. It is guessing game now.
Yeah I have been getting some vibes that russia is not telling a lot of truths so we will see
How not? He did move south.
You are attacking the wrong target, russia and france will overrun everyone on the mainland
Germany refuses to truce with me, not much I can do.
Why would he decline truce, he said otherwise to me
He just told me that it is too late to side with me and that I should basically suicide attack Russia so that he doesn’t die.
And you two couldn't agree on anything?
We are talking more, next step is getting France off my back so I can actually use my navy.
Hello there England! Pleasure to meet you 😄
You as well! I’d be interested in creating a DMZ in the English Channel, how about you?
I would too, and I hope you are telling the truth too!
Of course, in all honesty I have two fleets so I could force my way in anyways. I don’t want to do that though. What about Hol? Bel is obviously yours
I wouldn't say obviously but I certainly wouldn't mind getting Bel and helping you into Hol if that were the case
Obviously that would be great, germany would have to be on board though or else we would be making an enemy.
By the way I am going to be asking Italy and Germany about what they think about you, I will let you know what they say.
Sounds good, although I would expect Germany to expect Hol is his which might cause some conflicts.
I'll ask around and do the same for you!
Appreciated!
Have you reached out with germany tomorrow?
*yet
I haven't yet, but I'll message him soon
Have you heard anything?
Germany would prefer to ally with me, I’m not interested in that though. Have you talked to him yet?
Yes I've talked with him and told him that I'd move into Bur. He offered an FG alliance to me as well, which makes me doubt his geniuneness
Of course, good thing we can just take him out
I’m playing friendly with Germany as long as I can, should help us get some info or an easy capture
Sounds good to me
What areyour thoughts for this season?
He’s worried about you going to Munich, how do you want to play that. I say that I leak to him that you are going there and then you don’t actually, it could let you get into Ruh and also keep him from building there
I would love to move on Germany with you, however moving alone into Ruh would be overextending quite a bit
What would you look for me to do to make you feel better about it
Bounce Hol maybe?
If you're gonna get him to cover Mun
My other thought, and give me your opinion on this, is this. He told me he might bounce russia in Sweden. If I can confirm that and get russia to move into Bal instead, then Germany would be stuck in Sweden and i could sneak an army into Denmark. Germany would end up getting two builds but we would be in good position and Russia would then be involved
Hehe that sounds tricky but exciting. Unfortunately I won't have a big part to play at least this Fall, but if you can pull it off with Russia I don't see why I wouldn't help you guys.
You would be in a good position though, and have your two builds as well. I still have not gotten a 100% on the bounce attempt or heard back from Russia that he likes the idea. Because it does take some trust from Russia.
The low risk play is to just bounce in Hol
I just realized that if you go Ruh you can’t get Bel because of the way you opened I apologize for asking that of you. What are your thoughts on that?
If you're going to bounce Hol I can either save Bel for later and move Ruh, or take it and be able to build A Bre/A Par for Germany and F Mar for defense against Italy. Not too sure what I'd do, do you have any thoughts?
I would love if you moved into Ruh since it would apply some pressure, Germany told me they would be moving into Mun to cover it because it’s too risky not to
Sounds good, let me know if you can get the BAL/Den situation figured out
Yeah if that won’t work we can play more cautious.
F Lon eh, understandable. How to proceed from here?
Not sure, obviously your fleets make me nervous but how do you want to go after germany?
I can support Lvp into Hol maybe but a bit worried about where Lon would go
I will just reposition my fleets this round, Lon will be headed to NTH and I will surround Denmark with the other 2
I see us supporting each other more in the fall
That sounds good to me, I'll probably make an advance on Bur then
Apologies for the fleet in ENG, needed to go somewhere and now Germany trusts me
I'll pull out and let you know what he's going to do this season
Was going to ask about that, so I can trust that you won’t take Lon?
I hope you can, but if you need to defend it I don't blame you
Do you plan on bringing Yor to Den?
If not, you could cover Lon with it for peace of mind
Germany's told me that he'll just support his centers. I can cut Ruh and support Yor-Hol if NTH isn't busy, otherwise I might aim for a cheap shot in Mun
Yeah I’ll take the support, thank you!
How bout them Russians
What about them?
Any chance that you realize your stab failed and that you’re gonna back off?
Hallo there my dearest Sultan! A pleasure to meet you 😄
Hello monsieur President. Greater pleasure would be to work together.
I would love for that too. How do things in the east seem to be developing?
They're going slowly but steady, soon steamy. And what about the western part?
The battle for Belgium will be interesting for sure 😅
Just a head up here, Austria wants food relations with me currently but wants me to have Rum. I will go for it but I expect you will take it with support which is OK with me.
Wrong person 😛
Oops
I'll provide support into ION if you'd like :S
😄
Any idea how you'd like to approach Italy this season?
Not really, i really didnt expect russian move into ankara, and i am pretty much surrounded now
Greetings, Germany. How are things up north?
Things are still shaking out but overall ok. France and England seem to be getting along nicely and will likely roll towards us soon.
France told me his main focus is to take out England before moving towards us, but that seems unlikely. Let’s watch out for each other
👍🏽
England didn’t seem to be making any friends fast. Turkey looks like they’ve sided with Russia against Austria. Are you jumping on the anti Austria bandwagon? I’m trying to fend off Russia in the north.
Huh, France has been pretty quiet to me, so I was assuming France and England were working together. Have you heard much from France? I probably will try to stay neutral with Austria a bit longer, we will see
Are you planning to help Austria move back to into Vie?
not sure yet
Hi Italy, I hope we can reach a mutually beneficial agreement on what we want to do in these opening moves
Hi Austria! Yes definitely willing to work together
Did you have anything in mind?
Yes, I'd like to develop to the Balkans, keeping Turkey busy, which would allow a Lepanto opening from your side
Ok! That works for me
Have you been able to gather anything from Russia yet?
We chatted yeah. He's in for an alliance against Turkey
Would you mind a bump on Tri <->Ven initially?
Sure thing!
Thanks, let me know if I can help with something.
Will do
Thank you for trusting me. I hope you don't mind that I didn't attack Ven with Tri.
Yes, no problem. Turkey is asking me if that bounce was arranged. Do you have any preference on how I address that?
Oh and happy thanksgiving!
Happy thanksgiving 🙂
I think it would be best to keep up the picture that there is some friction between us
If you are planning a lepanto this would be the better course
Do you want to bounce in Tri again?
Nah, now it's fine, thanks
(no bounce)
Ok!
Hm, russia stabbed me
Ugh that was a rough one 😦
Seems like Russia’s really siding with Turkey. Germany said they’re trying to fend off Russia, which is good for us
Let me know if I can be of any assistance next spring
Hey, yeah he did gain a temporary victory but together with germany I think I should be able to hold R off.
Sounds good 👍
Still planning on the Lepanto, FYI
Ok, let me know what if you need help
supposedly T is going to move F Smy-Aeg. I don't trust them but just fyi
I've tried to give the impression that we have a quibble.
I'm checking with G to see if you can help with Vie, would you be interested?
Ok thanks for the heads up. Yeah, turkey thinks I’m on his side, but I assume that will change very soon haha. What were you thinking for Vie? I’m interested in helping
I want to smooth this over with G before you do anything that may seem aggressive. But I was thinking you move to Tyr, Then you can support my move to Vie in Fall.
Though I wonder if G will respond before the deadline
Yeah I haven’t heard back from Germany in a while
Ok, keep me updated
Hmm looks like a western triple going on
Oh, F allied with G & E? hm
Do you want to try the risky play of convoying to Smy or go to Syr first? I can try to fool T. Supposedly he's asking what you're planning
Does T really not know or is it feigned ignorance?
I was thinking Syr first...with my fleets there, I doubt T will trust me enough not move back to Smy. I’m sure turkey can tell what I’m doing at this point, but is definitely annoyed at me. He offered a deal that he would only build armies from now on if I only built fleets, which I agreed to. Other than that, we hadn’t really worked together, but because of that agreement he seems to assume I would feel indebted to him
I'm pretty sure he was aware because he said he'd build two fleets if I'd give them Greece
Ah. Well it would be nice to have support from your fleet when I move from Syr to Smy (hopefully net spring). But if you feel that you need to hold in Greece, I totally understand too
I'm considering moving into Bul. If that is cleared I can move F Gre -Aeg
Ok 👍
Welp I’m done for. Let me know your plans for Tri and I’ll try to leave you with Ven
We can get you Smy by Fall while you pull back Ion
Will you be able to support from Aeg? If so, I can support you into Aeg this season
You don't need to, if you support move into Smy, T has to hold or support with F Smy
But, yes, that's my plan.
Ok perfect
Thanks!!
We’re all the moves through the Balkans with turkey coordinated?
*were
Sorry for being mia while at this critical stage. These days went quick
I'm surprised to see you'd choose to stab me at this point. Could've conquered turkey by 1904 which would give you 2 and me 1 CP
From there, Sev is not a stretch since Turkey is easily defended.
Now... You have Gre, which will be conquered by T next year... I'm disappointed
Sorry :/ I was worried cause I didn’t hear from you
Left Tri so you still have two units this year- if you would accept this as a piece offering, maybe we can coordinate again next season?
Thanks. I'll see if I can come back somehow but I think T will be too strong at this point
Perhaps we can convince R to fight turkey
We can try to push into Ser if A Ser - Tri
Yeah, Ser is probably our best bet
Do you have a feel for how much Russia would be willing to cooperate? I feel like T/R are working pretty closely
Low at this point, doubt they'd want an extra front without being in a good position for a stab.
Though if we drag it on long enough T might stab R
T says he'd support me to Albania. Maybe you can move Alb-Ti with support from France? France made it seem like he'd be on your side there. Then maybe we'll be in a better position to have a go at Serbia
I'm worried to leave Are open but I don't really have other options haha
I guess ION-Alb, but then I have no way of defending home SCs
Anyways, let me know what you think. I have a final exam this evening, so I probably won't be on again until later this evening, FYI
(Oops, meant "leave Gre open")
Why would you want to move from Gre to Alb? That doesn't make sense to me. But only if T thinks you'd just abandon Gre for no reason.
I was thinking about setting up a convoy back to Venice
I assume you are trying to move back to Tri?
Never mind
Ok, I am going to move up to Alb this season. Made deal with Turkey. Best case scenario: I convoy him out of Greece next year and he supports me to push back at France. Worst (maybe too likely) case: I am just handing Turkey supply centers, but he will be able to get Greece in a season or two either way
I can't afford to just use F ION to constantly support greece or else France will keep marching down Italy
Sure, if you're doing that then I'll need to change my plans. I was hoping to attack Ser with your support
In this case (and also previous season) I think the best defense would be a good offense.
Yeah... basically this is what would happen
Sorry 😦 let me know if you need support from Adriatic and I could retreat there
Let me know if you want support for Alb-Tri
Yes, that would be helpful, thanks
Sure thing. And it’s not confirmed but Russia might order to support me into Tri, but I have my orders in to support you. So it should work out in your favor
Greetings, Czar.  How are things in Russia?
Have you been able to gather anything from Austria or Turkey?
I’m willing to work with you in the East, let me know if I can be of assistance
Not yet - we have to actually process a couple moves before I can gather any dots from them.
Oh, you meant information.  Turkey's not super talkative, seems to be looking at traditional boring Turkish openings.  Austria strikes me as the kind of guy who probably messages every person on the board with an opening proffer of "Hey!  Do you want to ally against <mutual neighbor>?"
Yes, I’ve only gathered the same from both of them. I suppose their dynamics will be more clear after a few moves. Let’s keep each other updated
Have you and Turkey agreed to anything as far as how to split up Austria?
Getting there I hope. Jump in
What’s going on with England 🧐
I can’t tell if France and England are actively working together or not. What’s your take?
I think their relationship is fluid and evolving. It's probably going to get a lot less friendly once France absorbs the Italian dots and becomes the big dog on the block
You have support to Trieste if you want it.
Please - thank you
https://tenor.com/view/why-huh-but-why-gif-13199396
Greetings, England! How's it going in your part of the world?
Well everyone is *saying* the right stuff, all joining hands and singing Kumbaya. Whether or not they mean it...
How about your side of things?
Ah yes, pretty much the same here
I’m curious about your feel on Russia?
Haven't gotten much of an impression yet, to be honest.
Do you have any insight into France's moves this season?
Not a goddamned lick! The French work in mysterious ways.
Yes, it seems so :/
Do you have a preference of where you'd like to go?  When I play Italy, I always try to figure out where my 5th build is going to be - as long as it's not one of mine, I don't think a strong Italy is necessarily a bad thing for Turkey.
Hi! I am not sure yet, I will keep you posted. Trying to feel out how things will be to the west
Of course.
Any thoughts on how you'd like to handle things in the East?  I know it can be a classic AI versus RT - what would you need to see  to prevent that?  Other than me opening to Armenia, that's a little bold for me.
Was the bounce in Venice arranged?  Are you actively anti-Austrian?
Gah didn’t go as planned. I am not sure if Austria wants to work with me. What’s your read? Russia seems neutral at this point
I’d be open to a joint attack on Greece.
Well ... Austria's pretty much toast.  Thoughts>
Yeah, it seems like it. I think Austria was trying to work with Russia, which was clearly a mistake
I offered him a great deal, but he decided to drop his pants for Russia.  Very frustrating to see in what is supposed to be a high quality game.  Oh well.  I am planning on building a fleet and heading into the Agean.  That is as far west as I plan on going, if you'd like to work together - I offer you the following:  I build only armies from here on out.  I think you might need a third army, but I'd ask you to build only fleets beyond that army.  France looks like he's going to be a bit slow in moving out on you, so maybe with a bunch of fleets and a head start, you can get the jump on him?
Yeah that’s reasonable! I can work with that
Ok. So, you don’t have a problem with me taking Greece while you focus on Trieste?
Yes that’s fine. Have you agreed to anything with Russia?
I think you me and he are all on the same page with respect to Austria.
Hi!  Why are your fleets in my area? How are they helping you take shots off of Austria and / or defend against France? What threat did I pose you when I promised to only build armies from here on out? Trying to figure out what you’re thinking so that we can work together.
a) I think it's bullshit that in a game where we're being compensated to communicate with each other, you ignore me for an entire season.
b) do you even look at the board before you put in your orders?  You're not getting any of my dots, brother.  And France is about to take at least two off of you.
Well I’m going to lose this game anyways, so :  a) Just because I didn’t chat with you doesn’t mean I didn’t talk with others. B) Im fairly new to diplomacy and never played as Italy before. Honestly just brute-forced the Lepanto because of a lack of creativity on my part. Sorry to be an annoying neighbor. Best of luck moving forward
Well, if they give bonus points for honesty, you just got some.  Anyway, if you had partnered with me and moved on Trieste, you'd be getting a build right now.  Sometimes you need to adjust your game based on the conditions on the board.  Also, as Italy, I never Lepanto.   Well, never say never ... but the convoy to Syrna?  There's got to be a specific set of circumstances that result in that.   And France not being aggressive and Austria letting me have Trieste are two of them.
You live and you learn
Or you read one of the dozens of strategy articles for Italy that are on the internet.
And, out of curiosity, why or who were you talking to while ignoring me?  You coordinated absolutely none of your moves with anybody else and somebody convoyed into your home territory.  I'd say you invested your diplomacy down a dry hole, brother.
So ... another French Fleet.
Yeah... Obviously I don't trust him, but he says it's going to be used to attack England
I suppose no matter what he told me, I'd tell you that he's attacking you.  

But he's going to keep attacking you.
Right
You need a 5th build, and I border both Greece and Trieste.  Maybe you can get your 5th build from one of them and I could help you out?  I'm just worried that you're going to cripple me while France cripples you.  But if we can work together against a common neighbor, then we can both gain.
Maybe I’ll go for Tri. I think that Austria and Germany were trying to coordinate to push back at Russia in Vie. I’ll try to gather more info from Austria if that’s still in the works- might be able to get to Tri easily while he’s preoccupied with that
You will probably want to cover Rome.  I'm hoping that you convoy back to your peninsula so that you can defend your home centers.  I don't know how you're going to cover everything - If I was France i would probably see if you're going to stalemate me or not.  If you don't stalemate me, then I'll take everything I can.  If you do, then I'll re-posture towards Germany.
But, regardless, I'm going to protect my home centers from you.  So, I'd ask you not to dedicate 3 out of your 4 units to get one of my home dots while, in the process, you lose two of yours.
Yeah that sounds reasonable
Agreed, it sounds reasonable.  I just hope that you are reasonable! 🙂
Wow, brother.
You'll lose one center to him, at least.  I really don't understand your play.
Actually, you'll lose two.  You'll lose Trieste and Tunis.  You jackass.
I had a deal with France (risky, I know)
Are you new to this game? I’m trying to understand who I’m negotiating with. You’re making “beginner” mistakes and if you’re a beginner, that’s ok - I can help you see other options and improve overall. My games is basically ruined, and while I’m not going to give you my dots, I can help you in other ways. 

Your call.
Yeah I am. Also it’s finals week so I haven’t been able to dedicate time to strategize, etc
Did you have any input? Honestly open to it
If I convoy Syr to Gre, would you be willing to support me into Greece?
I would, yes.
What is fleet Greece doing?
Ok. Sorry for the late conversation but I’m flying to Iowa tonight. I’ll plan on supporting you to Greece. Let me know if you change your mind so that I don’t waste my moves.
Thank you!
I’m not sure what I’ll end up doing with fleet Greece, but I will keep you updated next season. High likelihood I’ll just have to convoy it back home
Have a safe trip
I assume you mean army Greece. 😊
Oops! Yes that’s what I meant
I hope so ....
Yes 100%. I was rereading your previous message asking about fleet Greece
Ohhh. I meant Fleet Agean!! Ha, it’s so easy to make these mistakes!
I can tell you stories ...
Oh! Haha
Words are hard
Oh, misorders around Bulgaria have cost me in big moments.
F Aeg was supposed to be used to support me into Smy as of last year- but Austria hasn’t replied to anything this season
Not sure if he’s purposefully avoiding me or just given up
A little column a, a little column b probably
what would you like me to build?
I don’t have a preference at the moment
Ok, here's my pitch to you - I can replace your fleet with one that I build, but I can't replace your army in Greece.  So, I'll build a fleet and ask you to disband the one in Eastern Med.  Then, we'll work together to get you into Trieste, which will make up for losing Rome and give you a shot at getting Venice back.  Otherwise, you're just going to get caught in the sandwich between France and me, with a dying Austria trying to get back into things.
Ok, that sounds good to me. I have my order in to disband EAS. 

Since I didn’t retreat into Tri, I’m trying to leverage that into some coordination from Austria on their way out.  Not holding my breath though, but will keep you posted
Oh .... i don't think that's salvageable.  But ... maybe?
Yeah, doubtful....Stranger things have happened though haha
Ok, I'll support you into Albania?
Yeah thanks. A Gre?
I have a final exam this evening, so I probably won't be on again until tonight, FYI
yes.
i've ordered it.
What's your plan with Bul
?
I am hesitant to leave Greece wide open while I'm still so vulnerable to France at home
I was going to pass through Greece and hopefully you’ll convoy me to Apulia? If I’m going to “screw you,” I’m going to screw you. But if you’re willing to work with me against France, I won’t take your dots unless I need to in order to prevent France from getting them.
let me know what you would like to do.
True. Let's stick with the plan then. I have orders in for Greece to albania, and F ION will be ready for a convoy
hopefully he doesn't dislodge it.  If he does, you should retreat to Adriatic, in my opinion.
I must have forgotten to update the orders. I woke up, was like “man, I hope I didn’t waste my orders,” and then I see you told the truth. Sorry, this was not my intent.
Well this has certainly not been my magnum opus
I'm supporting AEG-ION.  If you, as your dying gasp, would support me in, I would greatly appreciate it.
Greetings! How are things in France so far? Let me know if I can be of assistance in the future, would be happy to work together as neighbors
So would I, Italy! I think I'm going to focus on taking out my upstairs neighbor to start off, but don't be a stranger 🙂
And let me know if you'd like to nail down any agreements wrt the mediterranean
Sounds good! 🙂 I think Germany is nervous about you and England working together
Ugh
Nothing personal. We can still negotiate! If you're willing to give up Tunisia and one peninsular dot of your choice, I'll help you out in the mediterranean?
Actually, I'd settle for just Tunisia, since that would allow me to move my Wes fleet back to Mao and work on suppressing Britain. I would want to keep an army in Pie and a fleet floating in Wes with Tys as a DMZ. Other than that, I'd get totally out of your hair so you can keep stirring up big trouble in little Anatolia?
Hey! Yes that all sounds good.  You can have Tunisia, and I’m cool with Tys as a DMZ
Do you have any feel of what Germany will be doing? Seems like they’re just focused on Russia?
That's all they've mentioned to me as well. Why do you ask?
I think Austria was trying to work with G to knock Russia out of Vie. But it seems like Germany is more focused north, for now
So just to be clear, I’ll be moving into Pie and staying there, then convoying tus-tun this turn. Then i’ll move wes-mao. That all sound okay?
Yes, sounds good. Thanks for the update
Still need to coordinate some things before deciding on my moves, but I'll keep you updated. Main goal is aiming for turkey
What happened to the convoy?
I decided on a different sequence of moves out of fear you’d reneg and try to stop me
Ah I see
Pretty ruthless how you're treating Austria, eh?
Austria started ignoring me...
Oh wow--you didn't take Trieste? I take back what I said about ruthlessness
No, I wish I had known what moves he entered haha
you could have retreated there, instead of to Rome?
I figured Austria would just take it back anyways and then leave me just as stranded
Austria'd be down to one dot--ya can't take back anything with one dot! (I'd have helped them though, of course). Still, that's a whole year you'd have had four units instead of three
Hey Germany, would you be interested in a peace between us, at least in the beginning?
I don't think either of us would benefit of starting a quibble when there's other powers at our borders.
I’d be more than happy to oblige. From what I hear you’re going to have your hands full in the easy anyways. DMZ Tyrolia and Bohemia?
Sounds good. If things change with Italy, I'll let you know.
It seems turkey has decided to side with germany
Russia, sorry
If you could build appropriately for a push to War, I can support from the south
I bounced Sweden for that reason
i'm going to Silesia.  you're in a bit of a pickle but hopefully you can get out of it to go anti russia.
Thanks. It should be fine if we can get 1 back on R.
Can I ask Italy to help with Vie or would you rather Tyr stay clear?
rather it stay clear
ok
I'll be supporting your hold in Vienna.  Anything to hurt the russians.  Make sure to tap Trieste to ensure you keep it.
Thanks. Italy decided to stab me this turn for some reason
After going through a very painful Lepanto. Throw it all out
What are your plans for coming year? Do you plan to put more pressure on War?
If R supports or moves bud for Tri, I could support Boh to Gal
What do you think about trying to move to Gal?
Why don’t I support you into Gal?
I'll try to push out with Vie this turn. If you could use Boh to attack Gal that would be good for both of us
Also, F seems poised to take England, after which F has 13 CP
I'm attacking Vie with Tyr
Hey there - just checking in noting that there are multiple ways our interests can coincide.
Certainly. Nice to meet you.
Harrumph - that whole Western side of the board is setting off alarm bells.  I'd really appreciate if you let me into Sweden to slow England down - even if you take the dot next year, it's still to your and my advantage to let me position on him for a turn
If I let you in you’ll likely build 3
Not sure what the third is - Rum, Swe, and?  Anyway, again, I fully expect you to take Swe next year - I'm just saying it's in both our interests if you let me convert it to a different unit first.  If you bounce me out I have not way to get rid of the fleet, whereas I can disband it if you dislodge from Swe next year 🙂
There third was Vienna 😁
Well, yeah, but there's no rational reality in which that should have worked.  Good thing I forgot to go back in and change my order to Baltic. 😄
Now I'm less glad that I forgot to go back in and change my order to Baltic. 😄
Well, this is fun.  On the bright side, looks like France left his English buddy out to dry, so...where do we go from here?
So... I'm not following back up to Silesia and Prussia because y'all need to deal with a monster France over there
I'm not sure I actually believe that you're going to just let your units just hang out aimlessly.
Mate, you realize I'm just waiting for you guys to commit on France so I can deal with Turkey, right?  That gets harder the longer I have to hang back, btw
My instincts to not trust you were accurate
Say what?  I told you I was standing pat and I did. You responded by claiming you didn't believe I would stand pat even though I just had, and supporting the Austrian against me. So I moved, given it was obvious you were going to remain hostile despite my overtures.
Mate, I'm still just killing time until you realize you have to deal with the French guy who's expanding all the way around your flanks and not cutting you into any of the gains.
Thoughts?
Now you want my thoughts?
Dots are being thrown your way. Good luck taking down France.
Thank you?
Now that I have a channel *past* you, I'm happy to ignore you and go pound France. You bring in North sea would be helpful there. No, I'm not putting to on St Pete, because I have to cover your rogue army
I think I got this too late
Are you going to let me live?
Negative, Ghost Rider. The pattern is full.
So whaddya say to this: I build a crapton of fleets, you build a crapton of armies, and we kick the world's ass?
I like the sound of that
I know I’m supposed to build a Carlton of armies but I need a fleet in Berlin to help stamp out Russia.
Long as it's in Berlin and not Kiel, I can deal.
Berlin, huh?
ahhhhhh, I had originally built in berlin and then after your message i changed it to kiel but didn't update the order properly. I have NO plans on going anywhere but the baltic with it.
Good to know.
is france playing us?
That's a good question. What's he telling you?
he asked for support in exchange for staying off my back
you
?
He also offered me support. Oy.
well what should we do about that?
I could support you into Belgium?
interesting idea.  I don't know if I want to come off that aggressive towards him for now.  maybe I support you in?
Sure, I'll take it.
It seems you have unreliable allies.
Quite a few of them.
Well hello there!  Hope you're having a lovely Thanksgiving!  Are you going to bounce Russia in Sweden?
I’m still undecided. Where do you stand with Russia and Austria?
Not sure. Austria is feeling things out and Russia says he’s supporting himself into Rum.
Are you planning on throwing the game to France?  I think that you really need to consider defense.
I’m trying to deal with Russia to stop you and him from steam rolling west. If you’re willing to turn on Russia I would be open to turning on France.
Alright, you make an excellent point.  This year I will turn on Russia.  But you need to fight France. He's on 11, is guaranteed England (eventually), and then you're in to position to stop him from getting another 4 for the solo.  You should demand part of England (or at least BEL) to keep the two of you even.  If he refuses, then you know what he's about.
So, how much of England are you getting?  Or is he letting you take Belgium?
Oh my .... he has no armies.
I’m getting Belgium
good for you.  And you should be getting STP too
It would appear that Belgium was not really going to be yours.
Yep.  No Belgium for you.  Think he'll let you have it this year?  Will he waive any of his builds?
In all seriousness, if you're willing to prevent the solo, I'm sure Russia will listen to reason.
I reached out to Russia. Let’s see what he says.
Russia seems to be open to working together to stop France. What has he told you?
 
I should take a dot off of him this turn, with more to follow shortly.
He hasn’t answered me
He just replied to me, so maybe there’s something in your inbox? I wouldn’t totally open my back door to him though.
He’s bitter. Not sounding like I can count on him.
Most of us out bitter, bitter men.
*are
Ughhh. That was a unfortunate retreat by France.
Are you still holding tight with Russia? France and Russia will squeeze me and then you. I think it’s mutually beneficial for us to work closer together.
Maybe, but this game ends in three years.
What were you thinking?
I’d be interested in your thoughts.
I was thinking I help you take Vienna Budapest and sevestapol and I take Moscow and Warsaw. That is if I don’t get clobbered by Russia and France first.
I'm a little disappointed that you would wait until midnight to message me a response, but ... 🤷‍♂️ 

All-in-all that sounds good.  I think France is about to turtle in the South and you're going to lose a lot of dots.  But, we'll see!
Sorry, I’m in GMT+2 and just woke up
oh! that's a little exciting!  Didn't realize!
I see you’ve solidified your partnership with Russia. I think I’m going to throw my dots to Russia just to spite France. Good luck!
That’s fine.
Let it never be said that you’re not a man of your word.
Hey, are you in?
Yes
Hey, are you in?
Why do you always assume it’s me
I’m in
Because i've had conversations with everyone else.
And, I forget that you're in Europe. 🙂
I’m never the straggler.
Then my sincerest apologies.  Would you mind double checking though?
Yup. In.
👌
Good game, brother.  Sorry it didn't end better for you.
Hi Germany! I'd love for us to start out on the right foot...let me know if you'd like to discuss the three B's (Burgundy, Belgium, and Britain) or anything else, for that matter 🙂
Yes, I’d be more than happy to discuss this
I haven’t spoken with England yet but I’m in favor of an equal split of Belgium and Holland between us. I’d like to open against Russia so if we can agree to dmz burgundy that will also free you up to focus on either England or Italy. What do you think?
When you say “split of bel and hol between us”, does “us” mean you and me? If so, then you’re suggesting exactly what I was going to suggest! That also goes for the bur dmz.
I’ve also not heard anything from Britain yet but I’ll let you know if I do
It’s nice that we’re on the same wavelength
I think so too
England is not playing very nice
If you plan on building an army in Paris I can support you into Belgium in the spring. Im assuming there that your going to move into the channel in the fall. What are your thoughts?
I'm waiting to look at the winter builds to be sure, but I think I might focus my energy on the south to start out. I'd appreciate the support into belgium but not sure why it requires a parisian army?
Again, I was assuming your fleet is moving into the channel but just let me know where you want the support from.
Thanks for the help! Now, is there anything I can help you with?
Now that you mention it, going after england now would be grand
(keep this between us, but) my plan was to wait til I could build another fleet and launch my offensive in spring. But I take it that's not soon enough for you?
you do whatever you think best but after you getting double support from both me and england trust is a little bit of an issue right now.  A strong move towards england would help me settle down.
Well, if it’s any consolation I’m reneging on an agreement to support England convoying to holland.
Yeesh. I’m quite nervous about a russia in cahoots with england *and* turkey. In the face of this, I’d like you and me to coordinate more if you’re willing to trust me
That’s all I’ve been looking for from the start. You’ve pushed full force into Italy but I think we can still turn around go north.
"turning around" is a little extreme, but I'm building a fleet it Brest and so between that and Belgium you and I could take Nth and/or the channel...
I just offered Italy a deal that would allow me to send one fleet back up north. If Italy agrees then you and I will *really* be in business!
Excellent. I hope they agree
Are you talking to England at all? ...I know that if I were England and faced with an unreliable France, I’d make overtures to Germany and plot with them.
Of course. He’s trying to convince me to take Belgium with his support. I don’t think it’s wise for us to not work together right now. The threat of England and Russia is too great. I’m still committed to this partnership so long as you are.
I am committed. Just wanted some clues about what England might *really* intend. I offered E support into hol again this season just to see if they’d refuse it or agree to it, and they agreed. But neither of E’s stated goals involve moving to the channel, so i’m thinking it may be feasible for me to move bre there unsupported, and have bel support den into nth, if you think that’s a good idea.

...also, I’d understand if you were thinking if collaborating with E against me, but I think long term I can offer you more because I’ll have northern *and* southern footholds from which to support you in taking over central/east europe.
You’ve got a way into the channel now. What’s your agreement with Italy? He’s very vulnerable right now.
I’ve decided to try and press my advantage while I have it, but keep that between us 😉
Yeah, I couldn’t imagine he was offering anything more valuable than your position now.
That turn went well for us!
...if you cut support from norway I’ll take nth?
Also, are you planning to help A hold vienna?
went well for us indeed!  I was going to force my way into GoB but I guess it would be better to force north sea.  will you support me into Norway once you're there?  Still undecided about Austria.
I *can* offer you that support but England will almost certainly cut it from Edi/Nwg.

I think it's in your interest to help A, since everything A loses will end up with Turssia, which is a greater threat to you
How about I convoy Den-York or Hol-York in spring, then support Swe-Nwy in fall?
(asking now since it may affect what you build)
I don’t think landing an army in England is going to be beneficial to us. Plus I have Russia breathing down my neck. I need to push East.
okay fair enough--though it looks to me like you're doing more neck-breathing than russia at the moment 😛
I hope that continues. Russia has been very anti France. He keeps telling me that he’s waiting for me and England to band together against you before moving west.
I keep waiting for that too, honestly. But my progress is about to hit a wall now that Italy’s got nothing to do but fight me back. Furthermore, You’ll need all the resources we can get to stop a Russia/Turkey victory, and I’m better equipped to help stop that than England is.
I’m in it with you. Just look at my positioning. You have the upper hand over me. If you want to stab you easily can. I’d like to pull off a FG win. Never managed it before.
I should have warned you i wasn’t supporting my hold in nth; we could have coordinated that better. At any rate, do you want me to support ska-nwy? I will if you’ll use that fleet to help me next year
yeah that was a bit of a miss by us.  I'll 100% take support from skag to norway.  happy to help once i'm in.
wait, can you actually support sweden in?  I need skag to cover denmark.  I can still supprort you from den or skag.
The swe army can also cover den?

I’d prefer the fleet in nwy because then it can support things in nwg if necesssary
Ok
Alright thanks! order’s placed
Ok, so there’s a lot of pressure from just about everyone for me to turn on you. I’m still interested in working together. Do you think we can get closer to center parity? You will be taking all of England and I’m hoping to be able to divvy up some of it with you. How do you feel about letting go of Belgium?
I’m willing to
Why the army in munich instead of a fleet in kiel?
...I'm sorry but with Turkey squaring up to steal italy out from under me (and probably roping Austria in to help) I need two builds this turn. I'll hand over Belgium next year.
Ok, so this season you let me in?
No, spring of 1906
...okay, clearly I don’t have your trust. But really, I am committed to an FG victory! I’m convoying bel onto britain this spring and I’ll leave it open for you. Just let me know what else you’d like me to do, or if you’d like to hear about my moves in more detail (although in that case i would ask you to reciprocate). My main focus for the time being though has to be keeping turkey off my boot
Why the 2 army builds?
Hi Russia, can we chat about a possible alliance against Turkey?
Of course we can!
I'm opening pretty standard South opening, so can certainly focus on Turkey
Sure, I'd welcome a move to Ukr
Indeed, a strong southern deployment. Do you need assistance somewhere?
Not yet - but that Western opening is irksome
You mean england's? Yeah he's going to try to push into stp
I mean all of it. Smells of collusion, and unfortunately not with Russia.
You think G and E are working together? Yeah, quite possible.
What are your plans surrounding Rum?
Turkey is asking me to give them greece
I'm planning on taking Rum - hard to grow without it :)
Personally, I'd prefer you didn't give Turkey an extra build, but if he's making a strong anti-Italy commitment, I suppose I could go focus on the North, which is clearly what England wants me to do anyway.
Yeah, I feel the same way about give T greece.
So... Awkward position but E & G working together must change our priorities somewhat I'd say?
Indeed. I already told Turkey my attention needed to shift north.
Do you trust Turkey to stay your ally in this situation?
About as long as it remains in his interest.
Hey England, we're pretty far apart but I hope we can share some relevant intel here or there!
If there's anything I hear that I think you'll benefit by knowing, I'll pass it along.
Greetings!  I'd like to keep our options open for working together, I think Austria-Turkey can be a strong early game partnership.  And, with the right conditions - a mid to end game one as well.  Best of luck with regards to Galicia and Trieste, I can let you know if I hear anything.
Hi Turkey, Sounds good. Turkey is close to my heart and I know it can be a very strong ally
We could always both get 2 builds and stymie Russia. In this scenario, I would only ever build fleets. Obviously it depends on what our neighbors do, but could you trust me that Greece would be a walk-in?
Greece may be a stretch. I do need to watch what Italy does.
I know, and it's always lovely to promise Turkey support into Rumania and then just let him bounce against Russia while you guarantee Greece.  But if you'd like to work together the trust needs to start at some point between us.
I'm sorry, I must've misunderstood your intentions. I thought you meant for me to walk into Greece unsupported
Well, I was wondering if you'd be open to keeping Russia out of Rumania.  But that would involve walking into Greece unsupported - unless you thought you could make it to Budapest?
My statement was with regards to my fleet on Tri. I may not be able to move it to Gre in time.
I may need it to bump Vie
Interesting.  I've never seen that before  and would love to hear your thoughts on it.  Though, I assume you mean bump Venice.
Yeah that's right
It's purely defensive.
You think he's going for Tyrolia AND Venice?
That is the standard opening against A
ughhh. sorry to hear that, brother.
Best of luck. I have received no indications from Italy or Russia how they plan to move, I hope any guesses you have to make work out for the best.
I’m haven’t done a good AT in a while. Want to make a go of it?
So Rum for Gre?
Oh. He has 2 support now :/
Not sure what your suggesting our fall moves to be?
But, yes. You let me have Greece, I’ll build two fleets, and we’ll get you into Rumania in ‘02. That way your fleet can cover Trieste and your armies can bounce in Budapest.
Preliminarily: I'm considering stabbing Gal with Vie, then s Ser Bul - Rum, which could bounce if F sev S Ukr - Rum but that would give you Bla
That could work as well.
You should chat with others and double back. We can talk on Turkey day.
Or, me day.
how's it going?  did you have a great thanksgiving?
I'd like to coordinate respecting this season's moves.   Here's my pitch.  Let me into Greece, I'll build two fleets, I'll have gotten my "5th build" from Greece and will never ask for another center again.  I mean, how often does Turkey, Italy, and Austria fight over Greece?  Let's just remove that from the equation.  Instead, you either use your fleet to cover Trieste or head into Adriatic.  Boom, my fleets come pouring in, you've got the extra unit for support for the attack on Venice, I'll be in the Black Sea ... we get you into Rumania in '02, maybe you get Venice in '02, and maybe you help me into Sevastopol so that I can keep building fleets.  It's a little unorthodox, but with Italy trying for Venice and Russia in Galicia - I'm trying to be your friend but also pitching something that makes sense for me.  

Thoughts?
Really, I wouldn't mind moving into venice at some point but I feel like with this plan I'm sticking my neck out really far.
Like ... how far? Cause you need friends, and Italy and Russia (I assume) both lies to you and attacked you. Me? I prefer to find a partner that I’m a principled negotiator. I like to find a partner with whom I can negotiate in good faith. And work with long term.  

A fleet in Greece is great for attacking Turkey, not so much against Italy.  If we have three fleets against two Italian fleets, we can take him.  Quick. Also, if I’m in the Black Sea, I can help you against Rumania. 

I’d ask you to consider this - you can gain two neutrals and lose one of your home centers for a net of four. Or, you can protect your home centers, gain, one, and get position on the guy who attacked you ... and earn an ally. I think that’s a very fair prospect.
Ok, clearly you chose the "forget the guy that's trying to negotiate with me in good faith and, instead, I'll drop my pants to my ankles for the guys that are lying to me."  I get it, it's cool.  It doesn't mean I can't get annoyed though.  Let me know if you'd like to negotiate in good faith.  Otherwise, good luck playing defense against a two build Russia.  I'll play defense until I see what's happening.
My offer for support in moving into rum still stands.
Ok. Would you mind if I also moved my fleet to Aeg?
Maybe we force the Ionian (or try to).  I’d like to also work with you against Italy.
Aeg is fine.
No rum yet?
No, I'm forcing RUM with BLA.
I think that's the best move., don't you?
Actually, I'm planning on moving BUL-RUM, if you'd like to support that.  I haven't heard from you in a while, I hope evertyhing is going well with you!  Did you have a good Thanksgiving?
Check that ... I'm using BUL.  Please support!
Any idea what Italy is planning? I mean it’s probably good that he isn’t coming for you.
This seems like a classic Lepanto opening
agreed.  complete with a classic  French butt-@#$%'ing.
While that's true, E, G & F seem all too friendly
That can't be good news for us
no.  it certainly isn't.  can you convince Italy that going against me isn't something you'll help him with?  meanwhile, I think I'll make a go for Sevastopol while you take Vienna!
Yes, it does look like R has too many bases to cover
Yes, UKR will cover WAR, I think.
can you support me to hold in RUM?
Or are you actually going to try to take Vienna?
I am. So somewhere's gotta give, either Vie or Sev
or war
Ok.  well, if I cut SEV's support, I'll either take SEV or keep Rumania or maybe both.
As long as we take one of Russia's CP, their defense will weaken and we can push further
yes.
I'm going to have to cover Smyrna, because Italy has shown that he is a one-dotter.
It would appear that we both lied to each other.
I think we're all in some existential crisis in one form or another now haha
well, it's not too late to patch things up.  We only really traded Supply Centers.
Also, I can now basically walk into Sev.  🤷‍♂️
We can keep jiggling things around here but France is not going to wait.
That’s a you problem.
Sorry things didn't work out, I think you played a good game, it's not your fault that Italy shit the bed.
Italy chose the wrong time to flip sides. I was disappointed.
Hi France, I hope you will consider being a good neighbor and letting me of potential agression by Italy since a strong Italy would also not be great for you.
I'll let you know if I hear anything, and I hope you'll do the same!
...if it worries you so much, we could work together to nip Italy in the bud?
I will consider it after the opening stages. Or do you have a plan in mind?
No particular plan at the moment...i agree it’s better to see how opening moves pan out
Sorry I thought I sent that message last night
Hey--I have an idea for how you could take Venice this turn, if you'd like to hear it
Oh nevermind you should go for vienna
...okay, *now* let’s talk boot-shaped peninsulas! You clearly kept mum to Italy that I was scheming against them—of perhaps you blabbed but italy ignored you—either way, I trust you now not to betray me to them if you’d like to co-conquer the place?
I'm ears but my hands are a little bit tied.
Ah I can see that. I underestimated how copacetic R is with T, so I figured R would abandon Vienna. 
...I’ll keep you in mind going forward though
I did not mention your looming convoy into tuscany and it seems I was too distracted with the Lepanto to anticipate it
(I being Italy)
Well let’s just say now I’ve got I’s attention
Which makes it potentially an opportunity for you to move your greek fleet around, though that’d still be a slight risk
Yo. Italy is the *worst*.
If you disband all but vienna, I’ll support you into Tripoli in spring?
Yeah... We can try but R won't stop coming.
Might buy you a bit longer though?
das ist mir egal
It's kind of the same situation; unless I can get Vie and Tri simulatenously
Well unless you’ve got a quantum-army there that ain’t gonna happen
I've come back from having two armies but one is much worse.
Surprised you didn
you didn't split Nap/Tun
You were guaranteed at least one but maybe two
If you can hold on til a year from now, I’ll let you walk into venice. 

And I thought about it, for sure, but I guess I just really discounted the possibility that italy would seize two dots. But yeah it was a mistake not to
ayyy Italy didn't steal Trieste! Maybe there's good in the world after all
Anyway, if you want either support into Trieste or for me to cut Ionian support (so you can take back greece), just say the word. Or some other assistance I haven't thought of.
Do you plan to use Ven this turn to push into Rom?
If not, you could attack Tri and probably bounce with turkey or R
I *was* planning to use ven for support, but I’ll strongly consider it...
Will it make a difference to your next move whether i commit to that or not?
It's fine if you don't, we may be able to push T out in fall
Hm, it would be nice to know if you do it or not, either is fine
Then I’ll do it. But just in spring
Ok, sounds good.
If you don't mind my asking, though, what are you doing with that albanian unit if not just going for Trieste this turn?
Actually, looks like I is going for Alb
So I need to go to Tri. Can you do your thing in I while I go to Tri?
in Italy*
So sorry I fell asleep before getting this
Sure, I'm hoping italy should not be a problem at this point
I expect not. Might keep one dot though.
Now that Italy is out of the game, perhaps we can work on a strategy against Turkey?
I thought you’d never ask!
So I think you should move tri-alb. We can bump venice and vienna in tri?
I can't really do that because Bud pressures Vie, and the only reason I can keep is because of Germany's support in holding
So what are you gonna do, then?
I'll try to attack Bud with Vie. If you could support Tri hold that would be nice.
You have my support for Tri
Okay, I will!
Sorry, I forgot to click the emoji last time :/
I'm not sure what to do from here. Tri seems lost...
Not if T uses the fleet to get into the ionian
Ok. I'm trying to push back Vie so if you could support a hold on Tri that would be good
Good luck! You’ve got my support
Thanks!
Hey hey!  Not planning on opening north, so would appreciate no Churchill opening
It took me a moment to look up what the Churchill opening is, and, I can guarantee you that won't happen. I hate opening LVP-EDI, to be honest. Sacrificing the ability to protect London goes against my every instinct.
As the great teacher DQ once said, "Always open to Channel"
*sigh*  Chris Martin would be so disappointed in your avoidance of the English Channel
As much as I love DQ, he isn't always right about everything.
Fair enough. I was going to send the video in chat, but damn is it hard to Google anything by someone who shares a name with anyone even remotely famous.
Ooh, post-coffee now.  So, you've opened north.  I'm focusing south.  I really don't want to have to spend a lot of time and effort covering my northern dots. So what can we do to keep tensions low up there?
Well I'm planning to build an army, and I'm not planning to put it in Norway. Do you want support into Sweden?
GDI,I hate this app. I never saw your comment, so I assumed you were being silent cause you were going to shuffle barents and Norway, so that tap was defensive. I see you're focused elsewhere, so it won't be repeated.
In fact, can support to Sweden if you want.
No problem at all! I would certainly appreciate that.
Done.
Bounce in black, I assume?  Or is there anything clever you'd like to try?
Probably best, unless you're really looking for a RAT and want to rotate out, but I'm guessing that's not the safest play
That is a nice, strong, southern opening!
Where you headed?
Straight to hell if I don't change my ways.
Putting Ukr into Rum, no move to Black - you are free to rotate.  The Western opening irks me
Before (and after) going for Trieste, Italy hasn't really made any any overtures to me about working together against Austria.  I don't like to see deceit behind EVERY door, but we may be looking at an AI.  🤷‍♂️
lol - we'll have to ask botsentinel to expand their service beyond twitter to include backtabbr
Well ... you clearly enjoy puns. 😊
Look, Austria is asking me to bounce you in Rumania.  I don't know if that's a great idea.  He also told me that he's going to make a go for Galicia.  So ... I think he might be full of shit? 🤷‍♂️
Probably?  He strikes me as the kind of guy who opened all of his S01 negotiations by promising to ally with everyone against a common neighbor. Whatev - I'm clearly positioned to be all over him and at least reasonably friendly with you.  I'd like to continue down that road, if you don't mind.  And the way the West looks after one turn, I'd give decent odds that I'll be looking to pitch a full RT in the near future.  I'm thinking that's probably good for you, since the north looks more organized than the south 🙂
yeah, it looks like his whole change to "why don't you take greece while i protect my home centers" was a ruse.  Let me know what BUL can do for you.  I'd like a dot at some point, obviously, but we have a great chance to make some headway into the balkans.
Eh, let's just erase him - you'll likely end up with the lions' share of dots, actually, as I need to pay attention to the north. But it's worth it if I get less totally random negotiation and don't have to worry too much about the southern flank.
I am not a dot grabbing ho.  I know this is big talk for a man in the black sea, but I'm not.  How do you recommend we proceed against Austria? I'm 100% down with wiping him out with you.
Meh, you in the Black Sea doesn't bother me as much as me in the Black Sea would bother you.
And moves depend on how aggressive you want to be, and whether you're prioritizing rotating the fleet out.  Either way I think we try to put you in Rum and me in Bud
Me in Rum? Now?  That sounds like a perfect arrangement. Especially with me helping you into Budapest. 

Austria has offered me support into Rumania, so maybe we can use that to our advantage?
Shit.. Just saw this, or I would have responded sooner. Yes, it makes sense to advance you to run now
Ok, which unit should I use?
Army, I would think
Done
Supported
Budapest is yours next season. And we can figure out a way to DMZ the black. I think you’re experienced enough to know why, as Turkey, I couldn’t afford to not go there.
Sure, black didn't really bother me. 
As to tactics, the current support is for bul - rum, but if you're willing to switch, I'm willing to support con - rum so bull can cut serbia., if you're game
That looks about right. Italy should back off now that France's intentions are more obvious. I do indeed have to focus on the North, and you should still have Austria's trust as well as mine.
Let me know what I should order and I’ll do it (in the balkans).
Italy will, most likely, go for Smyrna. 🤦‍♂️
Probably -it's a low risk attempt for him. 
Galicia is the mover to Budapest. Fleet sev can support whatever you need in Rumania. And why the eff doesn't this app show an unread message indicator anymore?
Yeah, it’s be nice to know if I’m being ignored.
Support me to hold, though it isn't necessary -it's not going anywhere and only you can dislodge it.  Meanwhile, I'll cut Serbia.
Great. That's the order it already had -i love when I don't have to change anything
I suppose this turn could have been worse.  And it would appear that England is interested in attacking Germany, which is good for you.  I'll can vacate Rumania this next year if you think you can get in there.
No worries - the overall board is actually trending the right way
yes.  Italy ... Italy just fucked himself.  I'm building an army in Ankara.  Trying to decide whether to retreat the army to CON or rebuild it as a fleet.
I'm going to cut trieste with Serbia.  You should be able to force Vienna.  I might get dislodged from Serbia, but I can just retreat to Albania.
Ok
I assume with your disband of Sev that you’re choosing to trust me. I’m not plotting anything nefarious towards you and don’t see how that would be a good idea. I’m about 1000% sure that there’s going to be a fleet in the Aegean this next year.
And it’ll probably be Austrian.
Our relationship does tend to work better without the Russian fleet anyway
Agreed.
Ughhh ... I have an Italy suiciding into my southern flank.  😦
https://media.tenor.com/images/d74df5ad5b63cc9bc13f9b7446184a3e/tenor.gif
I know .... he says he's a beginner player.  I've offered to help him out with some improved moves, but he's going to be down to just a few supply centers pretty soon.
Yeah. He just asked me what I thought about the relationship between England and France, and I just responded by noting how that relationship was likely to alter after France gobbles up a whole bunch of Italian dots and the balance of power shifts
Oh, I’m cutting Serbia.
Oh, I was cutting Vienna. If that wasn't obvious.
I’ve asked France to help you against Russia. Splitting the prize money three ways would be a. I’ve way to game the system, don’t you think!
*against Germany
He was not interested.  And it looks like Germany is not interested in playing defense against France.  The race is on for Munich, I guess.
I've offered Italy assistance into Trieste.  Are you ok with him taking it temporarily?
That's fine
But...how's he going to get there?
And, yes, I'm already planning on a race to Munich, because the German is starting to torque me off.
Through Albania. I’m supporting him in.
You or I can have it long term. I just want Austria off the map.
Sure, sure, I just looked down and saw he wasn't adjacent to it 🙂
i understand.  I think we're on the same page, like 100%.  Also, once our armies converge in the middle, we're going to run this German player off the map.  I just hope that France doesn't solo.
I forgot to update my orders.
Don't confront me none, long as I get my money next Friday
So, what’s the play here? Do I take Albania?
I think I need to see where Italy retreats to.
You need to decide who's moving to Trieste
Lets talk about this.  Is it better for you, me or Italy to take it?
I think we can agree that we don't want Austria to have it.
I want it now!  
But it's easier to put you in, and water still to put Italy in.  I say we put him in for the moment - no opportunity for Austria to screw around that way.
Ok. Let’s see what Italy says he’s doing with his Adriatic fleet.
The real trick is going to be convincing him to keep the army in Apulia instead of the fleet in Trieste.
I haven't heard from him, at all.
I have - he's going to Trieste
Ok. I’ll support him in
Is my support needed?
Probably not, if you have something better to do
Preventing some attempt by Austria to gift Greece to France.
Shouldn’t have trusted him, especially when he didn’t say anything to me.
Yeppers - and I could've paid closer attention except I've been locked on a major work project all week
Yeah. We’ll be ok. Germany has to go after France now, right?
You'd think so, but he doesn't actually seen concerned about being the deadline center front while good Ally grows around him
I wish you had taken Vienna and gotten another build.  I still think you can outmaneuver him - I've been telling him that he's got to insist on some of England for himself.
Yeah, Vienna was a missed opportunity last turn.
Life is filled with missed opportunities.
Maybe France will build two fleets and Germany will stab him.  Unlikely, since he's in pitched battle with you, but maybe?
Don't you DARE put a Garth Brooks song in my head.
How do you want to handle Austria?
I can cut VIE and backfill Galicia.
I mean cut trieste.
Maybe? I keep telling the German I'm just biding time until he realizes he needs to deal with France.  I mean, I'm telling him it's so I can turn on you, so not true, but still.  Planting constantly in his head the idea that this conflict is entirely his choice and entirely unnecessary.
Unless we can convince Austria to actively participate and not be a speed bump, that's probably best.
I mean ... I'd rather it be our armies, not his.  We can trust our armies.  We can't trust his.
True story.
alright, I'll cut Trieste and try to get into position to force it in the Fall.  Do you want RUM-GAL to back-fill you?
Why not?  I'm more or less in stop-the-runaway-power mode, so being tetchy about trust issues isn't really productive at this point.
Yes. Agreed. You have dots for the picking, but there’s no incentive since this is solely a draw based system.
Ok. We can break through to Munich now. I assume you’re giving up on STP and taking the Baltic
(I say that because France built two fleets.  So he now only has three armies, two of which are holding Italy.  🤦‍♂️
Germany says that France is letting him have Belgium.
Yep -let's roll.
And comms this week are likely to be terse, as work goes into crunch mode
Assuming serbia is the mover unless you tell me otherwise
That’s the mover. Do I tap Silesia? Does Warsaw support Gal-Sil? Or are you not going for Berlin?
Oh. I was kinda assuming you'd tap Bohemia and I'd blow up Silesia. But, again, I'm only half paying attention right now due to work. :)

Berlin seems unlikely, but I guess not less likely than anything else
he has to cover Denmark, Sweden, Kiel, and Berlin.
Let me know what GAL should do. 😊
Tap Bohemia. I'll handle tapping Silesia.  M definitely diving for a German dot
I will tap Bohemia.
There is a chance that he forces Galicia. I mean, it’s what I’d do. Thoughts?  Honestly, I haven’t been super impressed by the tactical play of Germany this game ... so I’m not super worried.
Yeah, he doesn't seem very innovative tactically. I can step up the pressure on that assumption
Thoughts on Boh-Tyr?
I was thinking Trieste to tyr and boh-mun, but good either way
I don’t want to completely rule out getting Germany to our side.
Yeah, damnit. That's why I was soft-shoeing him so much there for a while.
Too bad you went to Tyr instead of Boh. We could have popped his army!!
I think I can grab Venice with no problem.  And, I think, much more. Recommendations?
Damn. I shut my brain of for the weekend cause I didn't think we were going to process until Monday. Do we want to start plucking off France yet, or wait for him to finish moving on Germany?  I could argue it either way
I think I take dots off of France.
Wanted to check in, make sure you were comfortable with everything. I’m going to try to get position on France and really make him have to overcommit in the south, which will free you up to take German dots in the north. If you can plop some fleets down, we can actually take Germany out and “three way” this with France. Which is not usually what a French three way means, but ... y’know....
Lol. Yeah, I'm good with all that.
They both retreated to Tyrolia. 🤦‍♂️
Whoops. And I would've moved from Galicia instead of Vienna if I'd realized you were emptying Tyrolia. Fwiw. 
Anyway, Berlin is forced now.
I could have given you more detail, I did say I was going for position.  😊
You did, and it's what I would have done, but like I said before last week I didn't have a whole lot of brain power left to spend on this game. Much better this week!
End of year can be a motherfucker.
Want me to fill Tyrolia now?  Berlin roll still be forced in the Fall
I think that’s best. We should roll Germany now.
Want Rum to backfill Galicia?
Shouldn't be necessary - probably better to get to Trieste
Already orders to Serbia.
Should be very interesting to see France’s moves here. He hasn’t really impressed me with his moves so far, more of was super fortunate to have a null value in Italy and an ineffective England.
Thoroughly unimpressed.
All around. There were a half dozen ways to stop me from developing the position sound Munich. Now he's losing not just Berlin, but he needs French help to hold Munich.
If France doesn’t take other German dots.
Germany has threatened to throw all his dots to you if I don’t attack you now. 

....

So, I’m going to keep pressing against France. I don’t think either of us is a solo threat, so let’s get this down to three players and split that sweet, sweet cash pool! 💰 💴
At this point I'm just punishing poor play. 😃
I agree with that sentiment.
Wow. He did vacate all his shit.
Ummmm.... do I have anything to worry about?
Aside from knowledge that all we do is ultimately destined to be meaningless, as the universe inevitably slides toward heat death?

Nope, not even remotely. Three years wouldn't be enough to eliminate you even if I felt so inclined (and I don't).
I tend to agree.  But, I've seen some pretty shitty play so far.  I'm building fleet CON.  I assume you're building 3x Armies, just in case Germany DOESN'T disband SIL.  We might need to cover his options in the event he gets into Galicia.
You are correct in all counts
I will be in position to cover RUM and BUD if you need help there.  I think it would be preferable NOT to let him into GAL in the first place, of course.  I'm rotating my army into Venice and we can kick him out of Piedmont if he tries to play fuck-fuck games with regards to your army in Tyrol.
I'm covering Galicia. Venice or Tyrolia are good covers for you
thank you, adjusting my moves with this new information.
I'll cover TYR.
Anything to talk about? I assume you’re on your way to put pressure on STP?
We can discuss who's covering Piedmont. Right now it's me if you want to blow up the French army
Perfect. I will cover Tyrolia
Ah, I see you did the trust but verify this turn. 😃
🤷‍♂️
I believed you
Yep, but you also supported into rum just to make sure. Which I respect. 
I'm of course building in Warsaw, and don't anticipate having any units next to your dots the rest of the game. Piedmont can support Venice to Tuscany.  It would be somewhat appreciated if you supported Silesia to Munich.
Ok. Supporting Silesia to Munich. And I’d prefer if you supported Rom-Tuscany.
Wait, no. Venice to Tuscany is much better.
Done and done
I assume retreating to Venice cause no ill-will?
sure.  I'm not super worried about it.
Am I pushing to Piedmont or supporting action on Rome?
Please push to piedmont.
Updated
Piedmont is yours to command. If you can support Silesia to Munich that's awesome. I'm trying to impress on France the importance of moving to eliminate Sweden
I mean, let him have Denmark?
Silesia to Munich. Got it.
If he asks, sure. But skagerrak is guaranteed and ends the German
I’m supporting piedmont to hold.
Ok. He's supporting Rome to Tuscany just in case.
Not retreating from TYS makes no sense.
Are you going to support him into SWE?
Germany needs to be at zero or he gets part of the draw.
Yes. I'm supporting him into Sweden. And not tapping Norway as I should because I don't trust him not to eff it up.
Oh, he’s an incredibly bad player.
Or, at least, hasn’t made the best moves in this game (in my opinion).
We’ve done alright together.
Not too bad, all things considered. I do feel like I skated through the mid game when I shouldn't have survived if the middle board had been a little more tactically minded
I was tempted to go after you, and if board top meant anything in this format I probably would have.
Fair.
Oh, Silesia to Munich again, but this time actually protecting Denmark.
What do you think my best moves respecting Tunis is?
Honestly?
Rome to Tunis, Nap to Rome
Second option would be TYS to Tunis, Blow up Tuscany, and still move Nap to Rome
All of that based on "if this game were to continue"
Rome to Tunis is the move.
The game is over as soon as France I puts his moves.
we're supposed to be finished this game.  I'm a little annoyed at which every player feels that his time is more important than everyone else's.
Good game.  I enjoyed playing with you.  I assume that you are either Dr. [redacted], MD, or [redacted].
Dick. 😃 
And, yes, [redacted] here.
Hackenbracht.
Good game, mate!
And, well, I promised France that if he attacked Germany and let me have the 4 Italian dots that I’d attack you. He held up his end of the bargain ... 🤦‍♂️
Dick 🙂
Well, I'm a man of my word.
True, and now I have to mark you as one of the people who stabbed me this game 🙂
Right in the heart.
More like in the gonads, but mmkay
We come from France.  No, wait, *you* come from France.
Hey there - just don't forget to keep me in the loop if there ends up being something we can collude on.
I will, and same to you: don’t be a stranger 🙂
lol - man, I made the comment to Turkey that the Italian would probably go ahead and dive for Smy because it was low-risk and even having to turn around and deal with you the chance of an extra unit would be helpful, but I didn't think the poor bastard would actually move his army to the corner of the board out of the way, given your positioning.  Wow.  I dunno what you said to him, but he *really* misread that position
Haha italy must be some kinda optimist because i said *nothing* to them!
...I’ll be honest with you, I advised Turkey to try and snatch sevastopol, and I had you slated to lose at least one dot! How you got England to help you in the north and turkey on your side is an impressive mystery to me. I’d ask if you wanted to be allies but it’s clear you have your pick
You can never have too many friends. 😄
OMG that Mediterranean position. That's just gross.
Right?! I thought for sure Italy’d try to defend more!
It’s kind of a mess in the east rn. Is anyone helping austria defend, as far as you know?
I kinda half expect Italy to try and help him, seeing as he's not that interested in Italy.
Go to hell. Or, Hel, rather. It'll be fun. 😃
Mmm wouldn’t it be convenient for you if Germany had their hands full
Wouldn't it, though?  Mainly it would just be entertaining
We ending this with a three way or four way?
Please get into skagerrak and remove that last German unit before the game ends this year
Perfect. Finland will support skagerrak to Sweden.
Hi Russia--so sorry my phone stopped sending me discord notifications for no apparent reason. I just placed an order accordingly.
best of luck!  you've got one helluva problem coming your way.
Oh, I know. I don't think a single person has been straightforward with me - or on my side - all game.
is this a recurring trend or unique to this game>
😉
i think Russia would be interested in preventing Germany from getting many gains off of you.
Oh I'm gonna be a maaaaaassive pain in Germany and France's asses, I've got 2 armies on the island and that'll make things really annoying for them.
i know!  but, FRance is about to get two more builds off of Italy.
What terrible play by Italy.  Just embarassing, low quality play.
but, I guess he really wanted to see what a convoy to Syria would be like.
You have quite the guessing game with F NTH!
Go for Denmark?  Threaten Denmark and maybe bounce in Norway?  Try for either BEL or HOL?
Hold on, brother!  Help isn't coming, but ... still ... hold on!
Yeah ... was hoping you would play better defense than that.
Maybe keep the fleet?  see if you can't help rescue Russia?
you kept the army?  Mitch ... you can't do anything with an army ...
Greetings, England! I'm sure you're a busy constitutional monarch so I'll cut right to the chase: DMZ in the channel and let's keep things friendly?
Sounds good to me. No reason for us to piss each other off, and we've got plenty of easy paths to expansion that don't bring us into contention with each other.
Okay, glad we can agree on that 🙂
Guess we should have chatted about Belgium...No hard feelings I hope! 
If you were to support me into Bel in Spring I'd support you into Holland in Fall?
Sounds good to me! Sorry for not being more talkative, holiday stuff made things hectic.
Same for me, I understand. And I'll want to confirm with you sometime after we see all the winter builds, of course, but for now I'm encouraged by your agreement
Two fleets, huh?
Don’t get your crumpets in a bunch, England; I’m planning to use them in the MAO and the Mediterranean 😛
Just making sure. I'm supporting Picardy into Belgium, right?
Thanks, yes! I was just about to confirm this. I look forward to us working together 🙂
Thanks for the support! Now, if you still want some help into Holland just let me know whether you're convoying or parking the fleet
Gonna do the convoy in from London.
That was my assumption, so the order’s already placed
Sorry about that lie...it was true when i sent it, but later i received an offer i couldnt refuse.
That offer was based on the assumption germany would get another build (sweden), which did not occur. I know i’ve betrayed your trust, but as you can see i’ve got southern business that’s going to occupy all my resources. If you still want support into holland this spring, I promise to give it.
I'll take it, since I didn't lose any position or anything.
Okay I’ve placed the order to support lon -hol. I hope I can start to earn your trust in the future, since I think we both could benefit from collaborating against germany while they’re preoccupied with Russia.
Sigh.
Hey Turkey--just a word of advice (which may already be obvious to you), but now would be a good time to try and snatch Sevastopol with your black sea fleet, supported by your Rum army. Because Russia can't defend all three of Vienna, Warsaw, and Sevastopol, so you have like a 1/3 chance of getting to take it
Thank you.  i think I would be guaranteed to take it.  Speaking of taking ... are you going to take Italy in the rear?  you're certainly gearing up for it.
Italy’s rear is none of your business 😉
well, it is when his front is all up in my  part of the med!
Hopefully you won’t have to deal with that for much longer
No, I don't think so either.  He'll make a go for Smyrna, I'm sure of it.  If anything, S01 showed that he's a dot grabbing whore.
Aren’t we all, in the end?
In the end?  Yes.  In '01 and '02?  That's a matter of style and preference.
Well speaking of style and preference, I clearly misjudged yours! From where i’m sitting Russia looks like the real winner of whatever transaction gave you serbia.
Think it might be F Sev? 🤔
He still has a disband, right?
But you’re doing well against Italy. He seems to have a hard-on for Smyrna
Looks to me like Russia held all their dots...am I missing something?
And yes I owe you my thanks for not blabbing to them...or for being ignored if you did 😉
(Second “them” refers to italy)
I took Rumania.
Oh honey no...dots that don’t already belong to you don’t change posession unless occupied going into winter/build phase!
Did russia let you believe that?? Rude.
F BLA - Rum  SUCCEEDS
Lol i totally missed that!! Sorry i mistook you for a spring chicken
I’m not a world class player or anything, but this ain’t my first rodeo
Same here. But i learned my very first game you don’t necessarily need expertise to get far, so long as you have the right friends
(Translation from french: i played like an idiot but had a very smart ally propping me up)
Wow russia must really trust you
Or is sevastopol some kind of gift?
Not sure, didn't really discuss build with him.
Have you and austria talked at all? Some things italy said makes me think they may be collaborating
After he took Bulgaria off of me?  I'm sure he and Italy are trying to work together.
Well just keep I/A out of the aegean and they’re no threat to the anatolian. Wanted to warn you, though, not to bank on I shifting units back west to defend the homeland, because i made a deal with I to back off in exchange for tunisia.
are you going to actually back off?
Doing so allows me to devote more resources to England/germany, who are more pressing threats to me right now, don’t you agree?
No.  I think England and Germany are at each other's throats and if I were you, I would balance that power (make sure neither wins out) and consolidate gains against Italy.  It takes naval superiority (or a unit behind munich) to break through into Germany.  You can hold a stalemate line with 2 armies, which you have.
also, with England having two armies on the island, there's no way you're taking a dot.  And with only two fleets, there's no way he's attacking you.
Do you think given this situation that Italy won’t actually believe our deal is credible, and will actually send a unit or two back to defend?
I would.  But, I also would have instead of just letting France into a position of power.  You have an advantage, press it.
Truth be told, that was always my plan. I just didn’t want to say so to you in case you turned around and told italy not to trust me. But you’ve made me see that that ruse is already flimsy at best.
Plus, i guess it’s in your interest to tell italy i plan to reneg whether i’ve actually said as much to you or not
Not to be callous ... but we receive a larger split of the prize money the fewer players make it to the draw. Can you maybe not make us all have to band together and preserve the smaller powers just to stop your solo threat? Maybe work with Russia against Germany and let me make some gains against Italy and Austria while you finish off Italy and gut England? It’s not A LOT of money, but since there’s no prize for board top, we might as well maximize our gains.
I’m not doing this for the money. I don’t play this game much, and in fact I’ve never won. So I’m gonna try to this time if it’s all the same to you
Ok, so ... it's 1903.  The game ends in 1910.  Let's re-visit this at the end of 1905?  Can we agree on that?

Also, part of playing Diplomacy is playing to the scoring system - which in this case is all surviving players have an equal share of the draw.  So, if you're not going to win outright, winning is having the smallest draw possible.  So, in a way, I am offering you a chance to have the best possible win?  Maybe?
I...never realized before...that it was possible to mansplain over text
You said you don't play this game much, why should I assume you're familiar with scoring systems when you claim cupidity?  It's pretty disingenuous on your part to claim inexperience and then accuse me of speaking down to you (based on your gender) when I explain something.
Good luck with your solo try.  I guess.  You've got a long way to go, though you've got a pretty good head start.
I’m sorry—I shouldn’t have snapped. When I said I didn’t play much, I hadn’t meant to imply that I didn’t know how the game worked. But I can see now how that’s a fair assumption.
Well, you clearly know how to play the game.  Sometimes players are a little slower on the uptake when it comes to scoring systems - both lady and gentlemen players.  There are far too few lady players in the hobby and I would hate to have done or said anything to turn one off from playing.  I do sympathize, however - I've seen the bullshit that ladies have to put up with to play board games sometimes.  I usually call attention to it to ridicule the person doing it and was a little sensitive when I got accuse of doing it myself.
Well, now I can at least say that apologizing works better in diplomacy 🙂 . 
And I’ll keep what you’re saying in mind come ‘05
All fleets, huh?  Where do you think you're going in the South?
Better be careful, though ... you lose one dot down there and the whole thing can collapse like a house of cards.  Do I convoy?  Do I go for Tunis?  Do I try to slip into TYR?  Do I just let you dislodge me?  So many options!
Is this taunting somehow strategic or just for fun?
Taunting? I think you really need to grow a thicker skin.
Thanks for the advice. You really need to grow a bigger fleet
If four fleets aren’t enough, I’m doing something wrong.
I’m not getting any of Italy. And that’s ok. 🤷‍♂️
So when are you planning to turn on your friend russia then?
Probably not. We need to become a Germany before you take all his dots too.
Look at us. We could run this map if we’d just put aside our differences and work together. C’mon, where’s your christmas spirit?
I’m all about the spirit of giving, but I’m not gifting you a solo.
Also, because you keep sending fleets south, I had to reallocate the stab F Black Sea to defense against you.
Don’t you go pointing fingers when you were the one who just haaaad to have the ionian
Alright, I don’t feel this is a productive dialogue.
Speak for yourself this is the most entertained i’ve ever been in an airport terminal
You clearly are not at the bar.
Sultan, dear...I know we’ve had our differences in the past, but when i look at this map it’s just so clear to me that you and I are destined to rule it together!
We could probably take out our weaker allies before the clock runs out, and wouldn’t that be so much *easier* than just butting our heads against each other for god-knows-how-long?
Let me have some of Italy. I’ll use those builds to go after Russia. And that’s a look you in the eye, hand on heart, mother’s grave promise.
I am willing to do that but my only hesitation is that you clearly don’t *need* the extra builds to go after russia; they’ve left most of their dots wide open to you. Am I missing something? Or is this about balancing power with me?
There is definitely a power balance element.
But I'm only at 8.  I need 4 fleets defending against you, plus 2 armies to ensure that I hold Trieste.  I also have a unit on the front line with Germany.  That leaves literally one unit, A CON, that is available to do anything anti-Russian, and it literally can't reach a Russian center this year.  However, if I get 2 builds off of Italy, they become two armies and wham, bam, I'm in UKR and ARM and he's fucked.
So, I need for Russia to be the only one on the line with Germany and that army that's in Bohemia to be in Venice .  Your call, but you can easily fall back and make a stalemate line in Tunis with your fleets that I can't crack.  MAR S PIE, GoL S TUS, WES S TYR, TUN S TYR, TUS H, TYR H.  

However, even with this, you're still a threat to solo.  I would need to get Munich or STP, otherwise you've got a path to a solo.   So yeah, we need to balance of power this.  Maybe you also vacate Tunis to take the solo off the table.  I know that you want to get a solo victory, so i understand if you decide that this isn't the path you want to take.  But, if you're genuine about you and me two-waying this thing - i've laid out the path.
In principle i’m not against our balancing power, nor am I fixated on soloing, but hear me out on this: unless I go barrelling into tyrolia—which I won’t and you’d have at least two turns of warning if i did—you only need trieste to hold trieste. If you build an army in smyrna (on the pretense of convoying it somewhere) then you can walk into sevastopol next year. As an initial stab you will almost certainly be able to take Vienna with bohemia and trieste, followed by budapest with help from albania having moved to serbia. That’s russia down to two dots and you up to 11 with nary a cession from me. Meanwhile germany would be fending me off, so you’d not have to worry about german attacks on old-austria. 
I’m still pretty inexperienced at this game, so if there’s some obvious issue here i’m not seeing just tell me. But surely you can understand my hesitance to give up so much without first seeing any proof of loyalty from you.
Thank you for the honest response.  So, I'm more experienced than you - didn't say better player - and I've seen a lot of games.  You're at 12 and the 6 you need for a solo you have relatively easily (if we don't work together on the other side of the board).  EDI, HOL, and - with the fleets you have available - DEN, SWE, NOR, and STP.   That's assuming no gains in mainland germany.  So, this means that Germany and Russia are going to need to work together in the north to stop you - which I'm willing to allow, unless you let me take the Italian dots.  

Also, I've already built A CON.  We're in Spring moves.
Wow that was a short winter! But with all three italian dots plus bud, ven, sev, (all attainable by you in two years if i hand over italy) all *you’ll* need to solo is the remains of russia and one other dot. And italy isn’t exactly splittable, not with you and me so flush with fleets. 
...how about this: we illustrate our commitment this spring by each overtly stabbing our allies and making no moves against each other or into the ionian. Then in fall I’ll let you into venice and start moseying out of italy, and shift my focus northward. So you’d be pretty much guaranteed three dots this year and the remaining two italian dots next year, meanwhile I’ll be doing what I can to break even.
Ok. Bear in mind, for us to totally eliminate our allies, we’d both be at 17.
Deal still stands.
It absolutely does not you armenian genociding snake
From my perspective, it does. Give me Italy’s four and I’ll wipe out Russia.
No! You could have walked in but now you have to fight for it just like everybody else
And I’m not even gonna be rational about it. I’ll fight you extra hard out of spite
Why?
Why not try to get the best result possible? Why respond like a petulant child?
Like I said, I don’t really play this game much. I don’t see a path to victory with you *and* germany against me so I might as well just act to make sure your dishonesty goes unrewarded
What dishonesty?
I was straight up with you about those dots being conditional for me to attack Russia.
I made an offer in which you would get them, conditional on making a move against russia and not attacking me in spring. You said “ok” and then proceeded to not move against russia and to move against me instead. This gaslighting is actually vile
I’m literally as close as I could get with A Con. You don’t one dot stab someone, which was my only option.
Too little too late you hypocrite
And what about vienna?
We could have hashed this all out ahead of time. You wanted me deceived.
I’m not going to argue with you, it feels like I’m talking to someone who’s very immature. You can either move past it and try to maximize your result or you can hoist yourself by your own petard.
Well I already made my choice very clear. If you had apologized for lying instead of trying to act as if you hadn’t, I’d have respected you. Merry Christmas.
*gut.
I wasn’t going to one dot Russia. Now I am in position to take multiple dots off of Russia while you’re set to guy Germany.
I didn’t lie to you.
I said Ok.
🤷‍♂️ focus on making gains in the north, otherwise this conversation is totally moot. I’ll keep going for Italian dots but if I see you walking away, I’ll go after Russia. Which was my pitch a year ago.
Best of luck in your northern campaigns. Would be nice to see you either work with Germany to counter Russia, thus opening him up for a stab, or swallow Germany and reduce the draw size.
EDI and HOL are yours, probably. That’ll put you at 11 or 12, with more to gain. I really wish we had coordinated better regarding Italy, we could be racing towards a two-way right now. But a three way split, with no story powers, is quite the accomplishment in a timed round. You can be proud of it!
*stray powers.
Why don’t you focus on eliminating Germany? We’ve got three years left. I can’t get past Naples unless I get super lucky, and even then, I don’t think I can reach you.
As a reminder, we're being compensated to participate in a game where our language is being evaluated for honesty/dishonesty.  It's pretty shitty that you've gone radio silent and pretty disrespectful to the organizer of the game. //

I'm going to easily take Naples and might be able to grab Tunis when it's all said and done.  But that's as far as I can go.  Why don't you just walk away, build a defensible line, and focus on grabbing those 3-4 supply centers in the north?
which, as I recall, has been my pitch to you the past two weeks.
It would bother me too much to just roll over and let someone who has lied to me and, when confronted, gaslit about it rather than apologize get what they want. 
I would have been happy to accommodate you if you had reciprocated my honesty.
You have demonstrated remarkably thin skin this game.  Success in Diplomacy relies on adjusting to the conditions of the current game state, reading the board, making reasonable requests based on the game state, not reading into other people's responses what you want to see versus what they probably mean, etc.  I opened with pitching for a 3-way split from the get go.  Literally in 1902 or 1903, and we said let's revisit it in 1907.  You're the one who said that they wanted a solo, and then you get upset when I say "ok" when you ask me to do something that would give you the best chances of attaining it?  GTFOH!  

I guess you can call that gaslighting.  I call it applying years of experience and calling a spade a spade.

Moving on, which is all I've been trying to do, you need - at most - one more fleet in the south beyond your MAR, TYS, and TUN - which I assume will be your Fleet in LVP headed south.  That leaves your remaining seven units (didn't include the A PIE)  to hold Russia in check and take Scandinavia.  I'd be willing to NOT put any additional pressure on you in the South if that makes you feel more comfortable, but - in all honesty - your solo chance is done.  Let's play for the best possible result moving forward, and that's a three-way with no remaining Germany.
You’re right that I should have read the board rather than reading what I wanted to into your response. That was a valuable lesson for me. Here’s one for you: you don’t always get what you want.
I don’t care about an extra five dollars, so it makes no difference to me whether a stray power is left on the board—that’s your obsession. But frankly the more I hear from you the more I get the sense that you’re accustomed to controlling things and that makes the idea of inconveniencing you all the more appealing. Another skill involved in this game is, well, diplomacy and perspective taking—you found a thin-skinned player who is less serious about the game than you are, and rather than adjust your communication tactics accordingly you’ve succeeded in repeatedly pissing her off.
How about you play for your best result?
Jeeze it’s like talking to a wall! I keep telling you, for me that means not rewarding asshole behavior.
I haven't been an asshole.  You're the one accusing me of lying and then trying to gaslight you.  And acting as if my lying to you is somehow justifiable provocation for you to give both you and yourself an inferior result, when the point of this exercise is to see how people tell the truth or lie when trying to achieve an optimal result.
You're treating this as if it's some face-to-face tourney game and I just called you a lying b**** or this is an online game on webDip and I just called you  something nasty in the forum.  I've been respectful to you, obviously our 2-dimensional back-and-forth has not resulted in a lot of  productive dialogue, but there aren't too many scenarios where Turkey and France work together long term.  You've continually taken things I've written as personal attacks and obsessed on "ok" as some sort of long-term alliance that I stabbed you over.
Also, Germany threw his dots to Russia because he was pissed off at you.  Clearly things worked out swimmingly between you and England, and Italy I'm sure was your best friend there at the end of the game.  I, on the other hand, have had a game-long and productive partnership with my ally.  Maybe, in all of this, I'm not the asshole?  Maybe you take a long look in the mirror and, if being a good neighbor and telling the truth is how you judge assholeness in your book, consider what your neighbors had to say about you as they exited this game instead of the guy who said "we can two way if you give me Italy" and you said "no, attack Russia and we'll split the dots" and I replied with "ok."
What it looks like to me is, you were planning on getting a solo in this game and things didn't work out the way you wanted them to.  Instead of accepting this and going for your optimal result, you decided to get emotional and are now lashing out at the one person who's actually trying to engage you in dialogue and work out mutually beneficial results.  And you're calling me names.
Unless we’re speaking very different dialects of english, “ok” means “yes”. No more and no less. I acted in accordance with an agreement I thought we had made, when I otherwise would have done more to defend against you. For you to act as if that doesn’t constitute a betrayal is ludicrous to me.

I’m not saying i play this game like a patron saint. I lie and backstab just like anyone. The difference between you and me, besides our skill and experience level, is that when I betray someone i don’t turn around and act as if i haven’t. To me, that reeks of disrespect and makes me sick. Way more than getting called a name.
I'm generally an honest guy and genuinely interested in working with people to achieve mutually beneficial results.  What I'm not good at, and clearly I need to improve on, is working with people who are thin-skinned.  After my first go-around at this, and I was put into a game of Redditors who stopped talking to each other after 1902, I was told that I was being put into a pool of experienced players.  I assumed, from the get-go, that you were actually an experienced player who was trying to make it sound like you weren't.
//there might actually be a dialect issue.  "A filler word is an apparently meaningless word, phrase, or sound that marks a pause or hesitation in speech. Also known as a pause filler or hesitation form. Some of the common filler words in English are um, uh, er, ah, like, okay, right, and you know."  I type like I talk, and I often use 'ok' as a bridge or delaying word after someone has spoken and I then respond.//
//so, that's actually good feedback.  I will refrain from using 'ok' when responding in this and other online forums.  I honestly didn't think I had agreed to your suggestion and got defensive when you accused me of lying.  I'm not suggesting that I pointedly said no or didn't let you think that I was considering it, but I didn't really consider myself as having agreed to it.  Language is funny.  And multiple uses of turns of phrases can take things in different directions ... and we've gone down a deep dark path that I don't think either of us are really enjoying.//
Anyway, I'd really like to move forward and spend the next few weeks pursuing the optimal result for both of us.  And, after I take Naples, what would you like to see?  No fleets pushed up into Tuscany and Piedmont?  I can do that if it makes you feel more comfortable.  I think if you made a mistake or two or guessed wrong in 1910, I might be able to steal Tunis.  But, I find it incredibly unlikely.  So, I'll hold the line here if that's ok with you.
I don’t really believe your spiel about the use of “ok”, but i do appreciate you actually acknowledging the issue instead of pretending it didn’t exist. Thank you. 

But frankly, what better thing do you have to do with your units right now than defend or mount an offensive against me? If you’re not going to turn on russia, you have quite successfully hemmed yourself in. 
I can’t really even divert more resources to the north, since as you acknowledge I need those fleets for a defensive line in the med. so it’s not as if detenting with you would allow me to divert more units toward eliminating germany. Why is this so important to you? The only consequence I can see is plus or minus three italian dots.
Because, I’m still committed to obtaining our optimal results. So, I’m asking what it would take for you not to overcommit to the south?
I don’t know if I’m dealing with a rational or emotionally irrational negotiation partner here and I’m trying to appease both sides without lying about taking Naples!
It looks to me like between me and russia, germany’s northern holdings are pretty much toast even if I do at least try to take back my boot. Esp. If there’s any chance russia would collaborate with me up there. 
Does it matter how many dots each winning player personally has in a multiway draw? If it’s already established that you, me, and russia are the winners with no strays, what harm is there in you and me duking it out just to keep the game interesting?
What I was/am trying to avoid is a scenario in which you (a) work with Germany and (b) send way more strength to the Med than you can actually use.  I was concerned, since I had continually offended you, that you were going to go full-on spite against me!  Since it would appear that you're not going to do that, ok.  As iron sharpens iron, I will fight you in the Med over the remaining dots!  Perhaps we'll both learn something!  And while I was genuinely willing to hold what I currently have, I will tell you the truth that I am going to continue the attack!
You were never fooling anyone with that con fleet
Bring it on
Where do you think F CON is headed?
Not my job to tell you how to play old man 😜
So, interesting little problem.  How many fleets can Turkey even bring to bear?  How many do I actually need?  Does F CON heading towards France actually make a difference or is it better off being held in reserve for potential gains against Russia?
And in answer to your earlier question, in this scoring system - it's Draws Involve All Survivors (DIAS) and there's no difference in how many supply centers you have.
I mean there’s absolutely no reason to turn on Russia now, and you could conceivably marshal your fleets to get past my line as it presently stands...but maybe you’d rather just relax a little these next three years? Enjoy your miles and miles of coastline?
Why on earth didn’t you go to Burgundy? Was that a misorder?
More of an oversight. I’m experiencing a certain amount of jetlag
That’s understandable. I figured it was a bit of a mistake. And you mentioned that you’ve never solo’d before - having a lot of units doing a lot of things can get confusing.
Where were you flying? Some place cool?
Hey, are you in?
Hey brother. Good job in Italy!
Are you and Russia going to work together to eliminate Germany? Or, at least, not work against each other?
Have you two figured out how to finish off Germany?
Also, Germany needs to be at zero or he gets a part of the draw. It would almost be better to make sure you guarantee Sweden rather than ensure the perfect defense from Russia.
Hi I'm so sorry to have been ignoring you--my phone stopped sending me discord notifications for absolutely no reason! I should have figured you would have been sending me messages, but I was busy with travel things. 

I'm moving into sweden in the fall and changing my settings to 3 way draw
Good game.  I found you frustrating to work with and negotiate with, most likely because you're a good player who wouldn't bend to my will. 🙂  I look forward to seeing you on a game board again.
Thanks, Turkey. Good game to you as well! I'll admit that I was probably more insufferable than was strictly strategic...I hope you'll think of it as a character-building experience 😉
Do you do face-to-face at all?  I find the best way to improve my communication is by playing in person.
I’ve never done it, but I’d like to!
Hi there! Not sure we have much to talk about but I figured I would reach out.
Yeah for sure! How’s it going Italy?
Not bad, I’ve heard from everyone but Austria, hbu?
I’ve heard from a few players. Don’t have much to discuss with Turkey at this point lol. I’ve had a fairly busy week so I haven’t been reaching out much.
I’m really excited for this game!
How’s it going in the West? Was that bounce in Bur arranged?
Yessir!
Curious about the alliances over there... I’d be willing to exchange information
Yeah for sure
Happy to tell you what I know
So what’s it looking like
Idk really know that truth tbh
Ive spoken to a lot the players in my theatre but I don’t know who trust. I might be able to get a better picture based on what they told you.
I haven’t heard much from england, France told me they’re staying neutral until they know who they can trust, and that they have an idea of who but they won’t tell me who. His main worry is keeping you guys from joining up against him.
Yeah that makes sense. I feel like France. Both him and England have reached out. I think it’s kind of a three way diplomatic stalemate for the moment
Anything you have heard about my side?
No to be honest :/. My communication with Austria and Turkey has been minimal. I am down to try to chat them up if I can be helpful to you.
Not sure how much luck you would have, you’re welcome to try though. Austria has not been talkative at all.
Yeah we’ve barely spoken! Well I’m glad you’re responsive. I am so so so much more likely to help and ally with talkative players than players who kinda ghost.
I know right, despite that I’m trying to ally with Austria. Fighting them doesn’t usually end up well for me when I play as Italy.
Yeah that’s fair. I was Germany in my last game, never fought with Italy once. We had a pretty good relationship and I ended up allying with them in the late game.
Always nice to have the option! I have no clue who I hope to ally with so far.
Yeah same.
Oh dear
What’s wrong? Was england not supposed to do that?
No sir lol
What is your relationship with France like?
Well it was supposed to be good but they just moved their fleet to the SC of Spain, which seems unnecessary
Why?
Also what are your thoughts on Russia?
Mostly just curiousity
Seems like a good dude
I’m pretty sure France and England are gonna go for you. I mentioned to him that he could help you out in the north as that would benefit me (I like you and don’t want France getting too big)
Did he say anything?
What have your conversations with France been like? Do you think France is allied with England?
Yes I do, I am negotiating him getting that fleet out of Spain and he said he has to clear it with england.
Yikes
Yeah so you’re in trouble, have you heard from russia or Austria?
Yeah been talking to Russia. Austria, only a little
Is russia gonna help or nah
We’ll see
Hey Italy! How’s it going?
Some good some bad as I think you can see. Austria was being uncooperative so it was nice to coordinate a little hit on them. Unfortunately France got a little bold.
Yes that is unfortunate. It seems to me that France and England are in lock step.
I wanted to ask what your plans for that army in Tyr are
Well with the French being aggressive I might have to support Ven holding (after I build) otherwise it’ll probably be attacking Austria.
Is France asking you about attacking England? He told me he would and I was curious whether or not he’s being honest
Yes he asked me!!
Can I trust him?
He has been extremely untrustworthy this game. I would recommend trying to work with him, but protect yourself as much as you can. Don’t trust him in any places where it makes you vulnerable.
But negotiating peace/an attack on England can’t hurt
Not saying to betray him at all, he has been a fantastic ally that I would love to end the game with but we should keep an eye on Russia’s growth
Yeah I’m totally with you. Russia says he wants a three way victory with me you and him. I think the best thing we can do is build to parity
Exactly, France is gonna try and get us to break off, I’m good staying with russia for now though
Agreed.
If he helps me with turkey and Austria and actually gives me supply centers then I will have enough that he can’t really stab both of us. Which is the point he made. If he’s gonna go for a solo we will know this year
I think our best bet is to ride this out, take Russia at his word, but be prepared to work together if he turns on one of us.
Sounds great
Lol
Is france trying to recruit you?
Yes, he said “we need to do something about Russia”
Yeah I’m playing along with him right now, I’m supposed to be convincing you that France is trustworthy
Lolololololol
He hasn’t even convinced me that he’s trustworthy so I don’t know why he thinks I would do that 😂
Yeah he’s a real champ
He’s been so annoying all game
And he wants me to ally with Austria and turkey, who have both already stabbed me this game
Yes, just as France has also support england in stabbing me.
He knows he’s kinda beat. With Russia’s support, France will be worn down over the next few years.
Yeah he picked a bad ally and then that ally quit, I’ll be turning to crush him once we deal with the East
Amen. I’m hoping to take many of his supply centers to establish some parity. I think the best thing we can do to keep the alliance strong is make sure we’re all about the same size.
Yeah that was the only reason I got a little worried is because he’s now doubled us
Hey Italy good looks!! Looks like england, Austria and turkey are virtually toast.
Hey Italy! Wanted to check in and say hi! Things seem to being going really well for our alliance!
Yeah I agree! I still wanna make sure that France doesn’t become a threat, russia is playing nice
Russia is been good to me, I’m still weary of a stab
How’s it going Italy?! wanted to check in
Pretty good! I’ll be heading toward France here
Epic. Let’s carve them up.
How are you feeling about Russia
Good, he’s been nice to me and has continued to support me
Yeah I still trust him and feel good about the alliance
Me too
I think when Turkey is officially eliminated we be able to get France to surrender
Yeah he’s just starting to break
And HAPPY NEW YEAR! Cheers to the Russia-Germany-Italy alliance!
Happy new year!!
I will support Pic to Bre and set my win condition to three way win
Sounds great Italy! Thanks for being such a great ally!
You as well, good game!
Hi there! I know you will not be inclined to trust me but I am not a fan of attacking Austria immediately as Italy. As such I hope we can work together. I’ll be playing pretty safe until I have a grasp of the board. Have you heard from anyone yet?
Hello Italy.  I would be fine with being friendly.  How would you suggest we prove said friendliness to each other?  I am on the late side of messaging so I have received a few messages.
I will hold Ven, I’m assuming you would hold Tri. If you trust me enough to move out of Tri then I’d move out of Ven when I see it in the fall. But that takes trust on your part.
What have you heard from Russia and Turkey?
not much from Russia.  I am currently speaking with Turkey
Let me know how those go, are you negotiating the Balkans?
trying to figure out how to deal with all of that yes
if we are to be at peace, i would suggest Tyr remains a neutral territory between the two of us.  If you move there I will assume you do not have the friendliest of intents.
That sounds great to me, agreed.
agreed
Has there been any discussion over Gre?
we haven't... I am planning to take Greece. you should take Tunis.  Any thoughts on next season and how we can work together?
Not yet, are you and russia on good enough terms that you feel comfortable?
so far.  we kept Gal neutral which is as we discussed.  So, so far seems fine.
I’m fine with holding our armies at Ven and Tri as long as you want since I’m more sea based, however i feel like you will want to move out of there at some point. Do you want to try and resolve that?
I am open to your ideas.  If we sit forever we are just wasting a units movement
I need my build this season, so vacating Ven and trusting you to not take it is too big of a risk for me. Right now you could stab me without any consequence to yourself, so I have to view me having Ven as a protection against that. You may have a different opinion, but I don’t see you as being in the same boat. Even if you vacate Tri and I take it (which I won’t) you would still get a build and I would end up being stuck fighting you without much momentum. So I propose that you move out of Tri first and when I see that you can’t take Ven, then I will move out of Ven.
I realize this is a risk for you so if you have a counter plan or just don’t like the idea I understand.
I will think on this.  Regardless I will not attack Ven
And I will not attack Tri
I appreciate the trust, however we will be stuck in the same position assuming you build back into Tri
Would you like to coordinate an attack on turkey for this year?
I am open to your ideas, though I would prefer trying to find a way to work against France though I need to think of ideas on that.  Let me know what your idea is and we can go from there, meanwhile I will also try to think of ideas
Russia is planning on supporting Germany against France and England, if you did so as well that would slow them down. You could use your two Balkan units to help us against Turkey. We could get you Bul and help you keep it. I have some ideas for move combinations if you agree
What makes you worried about France?
well.. neither France nor England went into the English Channel.  That leads me to believe they are working together.  So, if that is correct there are only 2 directions for france to go.  through germany  or south through you.
Gotcha, would you be interested in coordinating an attack on Turkey?
what do you suggest.  also what did you think about what I said about France
?
France has messaged me to tell me that there is tension that he think he has diffused with you.  I have played this game enough to not believe him. as I said, why would he leave you alone.  his placement seems certain that he is friendly with England.  I guess we will see after spring, but I would be careful there
Yeah France and I are in negotiations that I hope are genuine, but I will be playing cautious.  I do not trust France at all, and if what they told me is true then England is wearing the pants in their alliance.
Russia has a solid plan to hurt Turkey, it’s gonna take some trust on your part though. We need you to hold off on taking Bul. If you feel like you need to take it though then go for it.
It looks like turkey and Russia are allied...
to the detriment of turkey... they didn't want to listen and they put themselves in such a bad space.  I think the person playing Turkey does not understand this game.  I gave them a solid plan and instead they gave up the black sea... o well.
How do you want to handle the situation?
im not sure.  meanwhile I warned you about France and he has moved his fleet into Gold of Lyo... what do you think he is doing with that fleet? it cant be to help you.
ug.. this is a mess now in the south
do you want me to support your fleet into the agean?
also.. if i were you you should send your army in tunis up to tuscany.  he will probably try to take pie this turn
Yeah that support would be good
Also France and I agreed to that move because we were in negotiations, now negotiating him out.
You might be able to get a free SC at Warsaw, I guess you could just overpower Rum too he doesn’t have much to defend against you
I hope you are right with France.  I will support your fleet into AEG should you chose to go there
I’d be willing to negotiate a cease fire
Hi there! As probably the weakest nation I have always felt that Italy can benefit from having Russia as a friend, and that it can be mutually beneficial. Do you have any initial thoughts going into the game?
I fully agree. Russia's well served by a friend in Italy as well. I'm primarily concerned with which proverbial horse I'm going to back in the inevitable Austria vs. Turkey rumble. What do you think?
I’d personally favor Austria.
For now I tend to agree. Austria can become a thorn later on but Turkey's an immediate threat.
Sounds good, hopefully Austria and I can reach an agreement. You vouching for me and not hitting Gal would help.
I've reached out to them but they're yet to respond. I'll tell them about it as soon as I get a response.
Yeah I havnt heard back yet either
Have you talked to Turkey yet?
I have yes, we've essentially agreed to bounce in the black sea and we've talked about fighting the Austrians. Still no word from the Austrians on my end about possibly fighting the Turks.
What about Rum? I’m trying to figure out if I can snag Gre, I doubt I can if you’re getting Rum though.
I'm going to be moving into Rum on the second turn with the army from Warsaw.
Got it
So you'll likely be doing a Lepanto right? (Assuming that the Austrians ever speak to you of course)
I’m not really sure, Lepanto’s are kind of risky. Plus turkey thinks I’m going to which makes it pretty ineffective. And yeah I need to hear from Austria. What do you think the odds of me being able to land Gre are?
With Austrian support the Turks wouldn't be able to stop you, but it all really depends on them. If you get the Turks to think you'll be on their side you might be able to get them to support your landing, but that's a long-shot.
Because getting to 5 would be nice, I would actually have some options. But yeah we need contact from Austria.
Yeah, the more time goes on the more I'm thinking of playing along with the Turks for at least long enough to dismantle them, but I really really don't want to do that.
Yeah hopefully we hear from Austria soon just so that there are options for everyone (including Turkey)
Yeah, them being AFK really forces a scramble for their territory.
I’m guessing they aren’t actually AFK and have just not gotten on the discord yet. Although this is strange.
If they do end up going AFK I would have to assume we would restart the game
I certainly hope so, the game's never as interesting with one nation DOA.
Any news on Austria?
They just responded to my message, no big breakthrough but at least they're alive.
Yeah same, gonna work on staying peaceful
We agreed to leave Galicia empty, but the way they worded it makes me feel kinda on-edge about it. Hopefully they don't do anything that'll derail everything.
We’re leaving Tyr open, he must be planning on going after Turkey then
Regardless, even if he does try something funny, I'll be in a position to counter it. Hopefully it's as you said.
I will be too, not leaving Ven until he isn’t an immediate threat
Solid choice, no reason to move it unless the French start getting funny ideas.
Which I doubt, that attack never works
Yeah, it always leaves them too open to attack by the other two members of the Western Triple.
Turkey is responding to Austria but hasn’t responded to me, something to keep an eye on
Well, if the Austrians were willing to tell you that then it's a good sign about whether or not we've got the Austrians on our side at the very least. Then again, if they're talking to each other it's bad news for me.
If they both went after you I’d probably intervene
It would be too good of an opportunity
There'd be plenty of openings for you to exploit, that's for sure, lol
Exactly
God Germany had me so goddamn worried about getting bounced in Sweden and they didn't even twitch toward Denmark this turn ffs
Better than a potential bounce, I might try to find out what the alliance situation is in the western theatre. It looks like turkey might be scared of a Lepanto with his hold.
He is, I'm communicating with him consistently, keeping him unaware that I'm not on his side. He's going to move to Armenia to build a fleet in Smyrna and he's going to pivot the Ankara fleet to Constantinople so that it can leave.
Thank you for the information, I suppose I’ll be needing to propose an attack on them with Austria then
Any word on if the Austrians are letting you have Greece?
I’ll ask right now
Are you getting much from Austria? They don’t seem very chatty
Austria is gonna take Gre
Well that sucks. Not much to be done about it though.
And yeah,  I haven't gotten much from Austria at all. Just a single volley of messages that one time in the first season.
I just heard back from them again, they still trust you regarding Gal.
Very good, though at this point they kinda have to.
So what are your thoughts on Turkey? They will have 4 units after this year, and possibly be in BLA
As long as the three of us (You, me, and to a lesser degree Austria) stay together, we can take them easily no matter how good their positioning.
Do you want to start moving after this season then?
Yes, I'll be making a move on them in the first season of the new year.
We can try to coordinate with Austria but it’ll probably be hard.
I'm communicating with them as much as I can.
It might be better to leave them out of it, not sure if we can trust them
Yeah, the move to Vienna definitely indicates that they intend to build a fleet.
Yeah, we have an arrangement where he moves out of Tri and I would move out of Ven when I saw that, however he’s gonna build right back into Tri so that’s a problem.
What are your thoughts on Germany?
Well, they seem like they're about to have a hard time if France and Britain are combined against them, which it seems they are.
I was thinking about trying to become friendly with them, since France is not looking that friendly right now. Speaking of- do you think that I should be worried about that fleet going to the south coast of Spain? (plus they will be building in Mar)
You probably should. I've currently got a working relationship with the Germans but I'm thinking of upgrading it to a full-on alliance given the France-Britain alliance that's unfolding.
I was going to propose that you send a fleet or something over to help him against england.
We’re on the same page 😂
Well, if you want to help out you could always start putting light pressure on them, not enough to provoke a reaction before we're finished with the Turks but enough to keep them from being able to full-focus the Germans
Not sure what we get from Germany on this other than that england and France don’t get too big too fast.
Eh, we keep the French and British from growing out of control while we take Turkey out, then once we're ready we can cannibalize them I reckon.
I don’t know how much I can dedicate to both Turkey and France though. I’m assuming we will want both my fleets on Turkey.
Probably just an army to Pie
Of course, Turkey needs to be destroyed ASAP, but even a slight distraction counts.
The only problem being that once Turkey's gone, traditionally Austria starts either looking West or East for their next target, and we're on either side of that.
At this point I think I’d trust you enough to say this, and if I can’t then I’m probably screwed either way. But I think we should look to eat turkey up toward the end of our turkey campaign or else immediately after.
They are not a reliable communicator and my armies need to go somewhere
I was wondering how to broach that subject myself. I am absolutely in support, I think that we should limit Austria's gain to Bulgaria and once we've got Turkey on the ropes, turn and eliminate them as fast as possible so we can both pivot to the west.
That sounds good to me, hopefully he is responsive enough that he is useful against Turkey
As for how to split the Austria/Turkey gains we'll make, how's this sound?
You: Trieste, Smyrna, Serbia, Greece, and Bulgaria
Me: Constantinople, Ankara, Vienna, and Budapest
Constantinople of course so that my fleet can get out and contribute in the Med
That sounds great.
Have you proposed the thing to Germany, I’ll vouch for you unless you don’t want you and I working together to be too public
I'd already agreed to help them by taking Norway and deploying my fleets to fuck with the Brits, I figure that as long as we keep cooperating along those lines then that's effectively an alliance, no need to be all formal about it. The two of you should definitely start to closely cooperate though.
France made some interesting choices with that build. Normally building fleets in the north would be something that puts the British deeply on edge.
Yeah I’m kinda confused, glad they didn’t build a fleet in Mar too.
I’m still gonna play cautious
Even so, if they move precisely right they can guarantee that the German fleet in Belgium doesn't survive.
Yeah it’s not looking great for my guy germany over there, he’s gonna need some help.
Well, they can't kill the fleet in Belgium and keep Norway at the same time, but then again, if the Germans do as I asked they wouldn't be able to do either even if they prioritized Norway. Germany may not have the upper hand but they still have a decent position.
Yeah I’m gonna message england about that fleet in Bre and see what he says
I think he anticipates me coming for Norway and that's the reason that he built a fleet in Edinburgh.
Well we will see, if France moves that fleet in Spain back into the mid Atlantic (which would confuse me) things are gonna get messy.
Maybe they figure that they can get to the British when they're out of position and grab up the majority of the supply centers before anyone can stop them?
Yeah I really don’t know what people are thinking over there, I’ve tried to get a feel for the alliances (even by offering to exchange info) but haven’t been able to crack them. According to germany, england was not supposed to do what they did (fairly obvious). It is possible that we have misread things though and england acted on their own. France did tell me they want to stay neutral until they trust someone. England sneak attacking Germany could have scared France, leading to the fleet build. This is obviously speculative though
England slipped up with their language at one point and told me that they don't trust the French to *stay* allied with them if they don't keep them in check
Just got that from England as well. He says he views the fleet as aggressive and unnecessary, and that France says they are *still* allies despite this. He is angry with France though so he told me that France is planning on attacking me with that mini force.
Excellent, I'll work on the French to try and drive that wedge deeper.
Should I hold off on messaging France? Wouldn’t be the worst thing to make them think I’m oblivious.
They started playing their cards very close to their chest with me though so I don't know if they trust me anymore. If you can get them off guard as far as your skill goes I can definitely see that going to your advantage.
I *definitely* don't like that the Austrians decided to build a fleet in Trieste. That doesn't indicate trust worthiness.
Any chance at least one of your armies will be heading down to keep Austria honest?
I wish that I had the armies to spare but with the Brits displaying some amount of suspicion I don't know if I can afford to have any fewer than 3 units up there.
Hey, weird pitch, are you alright if I let slip to the French that the Brits might have given away some of their plans regarding you? It has a lot of potential to drive a wedge into that alliance.
Yeah that’s fine with me, I’d like to keep France away from me. I’m kind of worried about France and Austria teaming up on me, there wouldn’t be much I can do
Hopefully the revelation that their plans have been revealed will keep them off your back.
That sounds great, I messaged Austria about going after Turkey, he said that he is interested but is more worried about France. That is reassuring to me though. Maybe you could reach out and try to figure out how we could do both?
There's not much I can do about France without dealing with the British first, but the best thing that we could do for the time being is see to it that the Turks are eliminated.

On that note, I'm working a deep subterfuge with the Turks. This turn I'm going to support them to hold in Bulgaria while my fleet moves -with their consent no less- into the Black Sea; in fall I plan to convoy my army from Rumania to Constantinople; from there we can annihilate them completely, hopefully within the third year.
That sounds great, by the way you have successfully pissed off france, he sent me a long message about how I will not be attacked and that I should trust him
Excellent, driving that wedge deeper as we speak. Need them to decide that I'm a better partner than the British.
Sounds great, I’m still not sure about France so keep working on France to convince them not to attack me either
Test message, I’m not getting the thumb option
Weird, wasn’t working when I messaged england
Yeah, it messes up from time to time. The French have assured me emphatically that they never had any plans to attack you to begin with, and have indicated a temptation to make a rush at Liverpool if I advance the front in Scandinavia.
Interesting, does not seem like a solid alliance. We are working on demilitarizing the Mediterranean so that I I don’t have to be worried
I'm going to keep up the temptations, but I think that I've pushed hard enough at them for this season at least.
Hopefully I can trust France after this
One can certainly hope, in any case you'll be in decent position to counter them if they make a move toward you.
Yeah unless austria does too, but I doubt that
Austria seems earnest at the very least, but the glut of units they have that have to sit sedentary certainly puts me on edge.
Yeah I was hoping to coordinate an attack with them, but I don’t know now
Destroying Turkey would be faster if they took Bulgaria in Fall, but I don't want to give them another build that has to sit around doing nothing.
I was thinking about going ION -> AEG and NAP -> ION, I would go into EAS but I have a feeling Turkey will move there. Do you have any idea what their moves are from your spying?
Yeah if they don’t take it it isn’t the end of the world
I desperately need the Turkish move into the Aegean to not bounce so that I can convoy an army to Constantinople. I believe that they intend to move both fleets out at the same time, but I know for fact that they want to move into the Aegean with the fleet in Constantinople at the very least. I'd recommend bouncing the Eastern Med and moving the fleet in Naples out to the Tyrrhenian Sea so that if the French do move toward you you're in better position to stop it.
Sorry, I had intended to make move recommendations and tell you what Turkey's plan was at the point where I told you that I was going to move an army to Constantinople but apparently I completely failed to do that.
Okay that’s fine, as long as things will work
Unless the Turks catch on it should work like a charm.
Sounds great, I may not move into the Tyrr just because of an agreement I made with France
Fair, I'm just concerned that the agreement was only so that you wouldn't move while they put themselves into position.
Yeah I’ll keep an eye on it
The Austrians are expressing doubt about my plan, I'm concerned that they think I'm proposing something that'll get them double-crossed. They're impatient for Bulgaria.
That’s understandable, I’ll see what they say to me
I'm mostly worried that they'll act alone or worse, make a move on me.
I don’t think so, they’re a lot more worried about this France thing for some reason
I can't imagine why, there's an entire Switzerland between the two of them.
I know I don’t get it
Austria's gone rogue.
Goddamnit they're going to ruin the entire offensive.
Standby for possible drastic shift in allegiances.
Yeah Austria is dumb
How do you feel about shifting our plans to attack the Austrians instead?
I was going to ask you the same thing
You should start communicating with them, I've gotten them to agree to let you have Greece, you should talk to them about convoying there
As in talk to turkey?
Right yeah, if you hadn't started already I mean.
Will do, I have to figure out my France thing too
Yeah, it's not looking very much like a DMZ over there.
We both agreed to move into those because we weren’t sure what to do yet
Sounds like the French are trying to maneuver themselves into some kind of position while feigning indecision.
Yeah I’m having him move out before I do
Good idea.
It’d be good for me to get a build here though so that I can support myself
Do you think it’s too risky to go Ven -> Tyr
Nah, if you can take the Austrians by surprise and nab two supply centers at once, so much the better, especially since you could immediately build in venice after that.
Tyr isn’t a supply center
Thhhbt got it mixed up with Trieste in my head; still, if you succeed to take Greece it'd be a hugely powerful play
Plus he hasn’t attack Ven all game
Hopefully he doesn't take you for a turncoat
Yeah I’m gonna try and butter him up a little by saying I’m worried about you and turkey
Speaking of, I have a feeling turkey doesn’t like me, especially after that bounce. Are you sure he’ll support me into Gre?
I've given them the sweet talk about how it's all temporary and we'll kill you later blah blah so I think they're sufficiently convinced to do it.
Okay because me getting Gre doesn’t really leave him with anything of Austria
They've told me that they're willing to accept that so long as you're going to be an immediate target. Obviously I'm reassuring them as to that fact but intend ASAP to execute the plan that I had had in mind before Austria ruined my attack plan.
Because I think that plan was sweet and I'm pissed that I didn't get to do it.
Hahahaha it was sweet, austria should go down quick though. I’d say the only variables are if Turkey gets their fleet too far out it will slow me down and if France gets aggressive
With the builds I get from Austria, if all goes right, I should be able to crush Turkey with no more support from you than is necessary to claim your fair share of builds to use on the French front. Hopefully.
👍🏻
Also worried about if Turkey doesn’t play ball, but you have to take risks sometimes
Yeah, hopefully we go 2/3 for risky alliances. (The second successful case being the Germans thusfar.)
That’s my favorite part about the Italy/Russia alliance. It’s very mutually beneficial and doesn’t take much risk.
The only problem being that in the early game it's very difficult to mutually support
This is true
Soon enough we'll be able to though, hopefully.
Yeah if austria goes down
Oh my god, Austria has no idea how this game even works.
Apparently they betrayed me because "They knew I was up to something because there's no way that they could have taken Bulgaria" but... it's pretty obvious that they could, Greece goes to Bulgaria, Serbia supports, F Ionian breaks the Aegean's support. I'm so fucking frustrated.
That’s very annoying, who told you that austria?
The Austrians themselves told me that, yes.
I meant to say turkey
Ah, no, the Austrians themselves admitted that that's the reason they betrayed me last turn, they were talking about twenty minutes ago.
Turkey is being cagey about letting me into Gre, can you prod or at least find out if they’re gonna do it
Will do my best
They say yes, that that is the plan. Was a very brief message though.
Yeah he said he’s supporting me in
What’re your moves this round? Just curious how things are gonna work. I’ll share mine too if it makes you uncomfortable
Good good, and he's supporting the convoy from Tunis, yes?
Yes
I'm going to protect Warsaw and do everything I can to hold onto Rumania. I fed the Austrians some bullshit lines trying to get them to back off and focus on the Turkish threat, hopefully that'll work. Black Sea's going to support Rumania to hold and Ukraine's moving to Warsaw.
Yeah I have austria supporting me into the Aegean with Gre so that’ll be a wasted move
I’m gonna hold in TYS and move into Tyr
Good, can you get them to tell you what they'll be doing with the rest of their units? I need to know whether to defend Warsaw or Rumania.
I’m gonna try and get turkey to hit Ser to cut any potential support
Yeah I’ll ask
Thanks, I'll admit it's got me anxious.
Are you too worried about Rum to let Bul hit Ser to cut support?
Or do you think we don’t need to worry, he won’t support Gre holding
There's too many risks if you ask me. If the Austrians supported from Greece to Bulgaria we'd get Greece but the Turks would lose Bulgaria and we'd have a shit time. I don't think he'll try to support Greece holding.
Yeah I’m realizing that he won’t either.
Any specifics? The most important one is what he'll do with Galicia.
I’m thinking about going TYS to Tus, I don’t think France will move into TYS if they stab because they should expect me to hold. I’m guessing they would convoy or move into Tus and Pie right?
Yeah I haven’t heard back yet, I’m just guessing he won’t support Gre because he doesn’t have a reason to
That seems the most likely option, I think it's a good idea to do that. The French have the opportunity to ruin you completely if they manage to secure both.
Yeah I’m worried about that, not sure what else I can do other than send Ven to Pie but I wanna get moving on austria
The faster them and Turkey are destroyed the faster you can pivot completely toward the French. I just wish I could convince France that the English were a better option.
Yeah they’re pretty annoying
Just like the real French
Hey now, I happen to quite like the French in reality lol
Just messing around
I gotcha, the France in this game definitely has their general aloofness down pat for sure though
They’re very difficult to negotiate with. They are saying that me being in LYO is more risky for them than them being in TYS is for me
That's a stinking lie and they know it.
Exactly
France all of the sudden agreed, pretty suspicious
Extremely. Don't trust them.
Moving into Tus is a win win, either I’m prepared for the attack or we both move out of the spaces and the DMZ is active
Yea gods if only the Austrians hadn't been chief among morons we'd be in such a better spot.
This will be a big turn
Indeed, this is big make-or-break time.
Yeah we’re taking a lot of risks. France and Austria could attack me, Turkey could screw us up.
Hell, if the British get tricky again the Germans may not recover.
Yeah they’re worried about england holding Hol, otherwise england might not recover
Well if England fails to recover, we might have a shot at this yet.
It’ll be interesting
You have no idea how much information you can get from some people if you feign a willingness to betray an ally. The English have effectively handed the war in the north to me, if they're telling the truth, and if they aren't, it proceeds as normal anyways.
What’d they say???
With the "promise" to betray the Germans in a turn's time they've agreed to back away from St. Petersburg, told me a great deal of France's plans, and given me an opening to break through their fleets, if all goes according to plan.
And if they're lying, then nothing of value was lost.
So what’re france’s plans?
And nice work
I only got information as pertains to Germany unfortunately; they're allegedly not going to menace Munich but instead throw all their support against Belgium.
Nice, should help you and germany our!
Out!
I certainly hope so! Any blow struck against the British and French is a possible relief to you.
Yeah I’m really hoping France doesn’t hit me and I get Gre
That would be the ideal situation. I shudder to think of the worst-case this turn though.
I might have to stay up and see what happens
I have no choice but to either way, I'm busily researching for a big paper I have to write by the end of the week.
College?
Yeeeeep, it's a real pain in the ass.
It really is
I’m in finals this week
Same, though it's mostly over. I had two today.
Same I’m done tomorrow, I’m at MSU
IUPUI myself.
Good stuff
Well prayers up for good grades and good luck with France
I'll drink to that.
Aside from France making a move on you, I could not be happier with the results.
True
Ok, so, if the French weren't riding your ass we could make amazing progress this year, but unfortunately they are. Unfortunately as well, the Turks are rearing to get at you too; I'll convince them otherwise, and if we make sufficient progress (Unfortunately the only way I envision it working is if the Turks get Serbia for now, similar with how the Austrians would have gotten Bulgaria) I will be in Budapest, and if things go *really* well, I'll stab the Turks before year's end to keep their minds off of you. If the French back off we can easily get you Trieste and then start making serious gains on your front.

How's that sound as far as a general road map goes? Considering the situation I think that it would also be far more expedient for us to switch Smyrna for Vienna in our center shares but I understand if you'd prefer to stick with what we had planned previously.
Yeah I already told turkey they could have Ser, it was part of negotiating Gre. And yes France is really ruining things, I could lose Ven if they coordinate with Austria (which is probably somewhat unlikely since Austria has stabbed everyone so far this game)
I’m not sure if we will need to switch those, but I am open to figuring it out when the time comes
Even if they do coordinate, the only way they can guarantee it is by moving with the fleet in the Adriatic this turn, and you can take it back immediately after that if the Turks and I work together to disrupt the hell out of them.

The current worst case is that the French can now support the convoy move into Tuscany.
I’ll be building an army in Ven which will help with everything
It will indeed. Things are going to be extremely rough if the French don't decide that they need to pull back.
Yeah hopefully you can convince them
I’ll be arguing it too
You could also try to tell the Austrians that if they're going to be cool now that you'll back off, but they seem fully in league with the French.
Maybe try to convince them to disband Adriatic rather than Albania?
Worth a shot
I moved into Tyr though
Well if they do that, you can support Tyr into Piedmont and send TYS to Tus, and that would not only block the French convoy again, but force the French to retreat. It's worth a shot.
Yeah I’ll see
Hang on, let me pitch it as "Getting the Italians to back off" rather than as you offering, it might be that they trust me more since they backed off of Galicia when I asked.
That’s fair
As soon as they respond I'll tell you what they said. That would be a godsend in backing the French away, even if it'd be a setback on the Austrian front; I'm more worried about the French, don't know about you.
I am too, I can’t fight on two fronts
As long as you hold the French off and and I can hold the Turks back long enough to put them down easy, it shouldn't be *too* much of a crisis. And here I thought the sweating would be over after last season's results, silly me.
It’ll be interesting for sure 😂
Hopefully the pressure that I'm about to lay down in the north will be enough to get the French concerned and pull back.
I’m still trying to figure out if there’s a way to split the england France alliance. Not sure who would be more likely to attack who but either way it would cause the French to retreat.
Soon enough I'll have the English on the ropes if everything goes as I intend it to. That would definitely cause the French to need to reassess the situation.
France sounds a little apologetic and defeated, could be a ruse but I’m hopeful
It is 100% a ruse, don't believe them for a second.
Hahaha I would never move differently because of it. Just hoping it is followed by a retreat
What’re you doing for your build?
That'd be super cool. I asked the Turks if I was allowed to build in Sevastopol, because I want to convoy from there to one of their home supply centers when the time comes.
I obviously didn't tell them that last part.
Hahahahaha, we’ll see what they say then
The Austrians did it the mad bastards, they deleted the fleet in the Adriatic!
Hahaha did you suggest that?
I did indeed, didn't expect it to work but here we are!
Wonderful, that will make defense easier
For me
Well, it means that you can support yourself into Piedmont and make it impossible to lose Venice, at least not until next year.
The only hurdle is determining whether or not the French are going to try to convoy again, or try a different plan of attack.
Yeah it’s gonna be tough I’m gonna have to play cautious
Lol France is out here trying to get me to let him into Tyr
FOH
😂
This fucking guy lol
Like, what kind of wacky races plan does he think he's gonna pull off?
He claimed it would be low risk
I told him low risk is him turning around and attacking England
If you want turkey to take Ser then you should hit Bud, I’m supporting him in.
I think you should, we will have turkey in a corner and he trusts you it’s okay if he gets a build as long as it comes from Austria
I'm attacking Budapest as my part yeah.
Though, doesn't supporting him have the same effect with less rksk?
True, either way works
The fucking people I’m this game good god
*in
God the Turks ugh
You could have had Ionian support Greece, not that it would have mattered
Took a big risk trusting the French to back off
I realized that even if they didn’t back off I would be able to respond
And yeah I should have had the support in, I was changing my orders last minute and didn’t fix that. But yeah it would not have mattered
What do you want from Tri
If you could support me into Budapest, from there I can support you into effectively all of the territories you need from Austria/Turkey, aside from Greece and Bulgaria.
I'm moving from Galicia, sorry, that's necessary information.
Will do!
Turks are gonna be pissed when they see the news.
Good work, lots of builds for you I will have to catch up. Kind of sucks that england quit
It does, but considering how things were going for them I don't exactly blame them, especially since the French were just about to turn coat.
So which do you want first? Vienna or Serbia?
Not sure yet, cleaning this up is gonna be a mess. Hopefully Germany can keep France small enough while we do it
I don't think we can keep the French from getting one build, but if all goes well we can get you two builds at least, then pick up the others the next year and be ready to turn around and finish off the French.
I might go army... the Turks are so weak that I think the fleet would be a waste
And if you do it right they will have to disband Bul
I would assume turkey will stop attacking ION now that it had to defend itself
I don't think it'd be a bad idea to have a third army running around, especially since you'll have more builds to consider stocking up on them in the near future. I'm guessing the Turks are going to withdraw both fleets to Smyrna and Constantinople respectively, but if you have the Ionian poke the Aegean and I have Rumania poke Bulgaria I can guarantee that my fleet makes it into Constantinople, and from there we can guarantee your fleet makes it into the Aegean, from there you'll have Smyrna and at the same time you'll have armies marching into Greece and Bulgaria if all goes well.
I was thinking about negotiating a mutual retreat with France and then being sneaky and moving into WES, could slow them down. I’ll have to look at the board more though to see if it would be too much, them retaliating into TYS could be rough, but if they actually retreat I’d be fine or my armies might be enough to keep him from hitting an SC
I’m gonna look into it more
And yes I like everything you said up there
What are you thinking after this? Will you be eating germany?
You have been wonderful all game but as you hit double digits I have to start worrying about a solo...
I don't think that doing Serbia or Vienna first has any material difference honestly, though Serbia first would mean you could possibly take Greece this year as well.

As far as my plans go, I admit that a solo would be nice, but I have no intent of turning on either you or the Germans. I already proposed a 3 way draw to the Germans and they have said that they're all for it.
Obviously sounds great to me, it’s kind of being handed to us at this point 😂
I certainly don't blame you for worrying, but if I intended to go alone I'd have no reason to help you into all the bits of Turkey and Austria we've agreed to, which you'll see I won't fail to do.
So what will you be doing with all those other units then?
Makes sense
Well me and germany will have our eyes on you 😉
Yeah, the Austrians had me worried for a while there but convincing them to back off put things nicely back on track; for me at least. And once we have Austria and Turkey dead, I'll likely keep most of my units in and around Ukraine, with the exception of any which could better be used to help you or Germany out; in limited enough number to keep from doing anything even if I did intend to turn on you two of course 😜
I'd hate to get you two worried about it.
And lol yeah, I'm sure you will
Vienna and Serbia both present effectively the same problems, whether you go for one of them first or the other.
Yeah I was thinking about that too, not positive how I wanna tackle it
Yeah France is already trying to get me to turn on you
So I figure, his only chance is to either get you folks to turn on me, or get me to turn on you.
I think of the two, going for Vienna first is the most safe.
Okay that’s fine with me
Sorry I just remembered I was supposed to attack with ION, ended up not mattering
No worries, though it did just occur to me that if both Turkey and Austria are going to go into civil disorder that you could have also had Greece this turn if we went for Serbia first.
Yeah this is gonna be weird
Of course they will wake up as soon as we start assuming that
Naturally, which is why we should continue to act as though they were both still around.
Are you supporting me into Ser and AEG or just Ser
Never heard back about AEG so I didn’t want to risk turkey hitting ION and me not going anywhere, sorry
No worries, it's not a big deal all things considered.
I’m just glad you had that support to Ser in
Yep, the Austrians are effectively dead and the Turks are going to follow quickly.
What luck! Bulgaria and Greece are both walk-ins now. I'll start pulling away from our border in Austria and the Balkans.
Yeah looking good!
From what I can tell we don’t need to coordinate anything this season
Not particularly, things are going quite well.
I can support you into Bulgaria just in case the Turks unexpectedly submit orders though
Sounds good
Think it's time to pivot toward the French, I can support your fleet from the Ionian into the Aegean and then into Smyrna from there, and that'll finish the Turks.
Will do
And last but not least, I support you into Smyrna and the Turks are done for.
Sounds great!
I think when Turkey is eliminated we may be able to get France to surrender
Probably yes
Happy New Year, I'm going to be forcing my way into the Mid-Atlantic, from there I can support you into Spain; you'll probably end up being the one of us with 12 supply centers at the end considering the positioning of everything.
Sounds wonderful, happy new year to you as well
Shall we request that France surrenders and announce the intentions of a three way?
That sounds right to me
I will be supporting your fleet into Por and setting my condition to three way win
Excellent, support the Germans into Brest as well if you can
Hey Italy, just saying high. I doubt we will cross paths until later in the game, but if you feel so inclined you could attack France 😉. France is probably the strongest county and I think me, you, and Germany should shut them down before they can get up and running. Anyways, good luck and have fun!
Thanks for reaching out! Yeah as Italy I will have to feel the board out before making any commitments.
Of course
Things are looking pretty peaceful in the west!
I would have thought France would have gone army in Bre and fleet in Mar, do you know why he flipped them?
Yes—he said he wanted to get support to belgium... but he could have done this with a fleet as well, so I think it may have been an aggresive move(even though he insists we are still allies)... and for this reason I'm going to tell you that he said he was planning on attacking you, although not completely full fledged(the fleet in spain and the army in mar). Just a fair warning, and since it seems like you don't have your hands too full over there maybe start worrieng about france? UP to you
Oh yeah I can see that hit coming from a mile away, the fleet going to SC is pretty obvious. That’s why I’m surprised he didn’t build a fleet in Mar.
I appreciate it though, you worried about russia at all?
yep. Turkey is basically giving away centers, I wouldn't be suprised if germanys back door opened up.
Yeah germany is pretty worried about you guys from what I have heard. And Turkey seems kinda dumb, he’s been scared of me pulling a lepanto all game and it’s gonna cost him.
Will you do me a favor and let France move into the mid Atlantic for a turn, we are trying to demilitarize the Mediterranean but he needs to use the Atlantic to get out of Spain
Hi there! I figured it would be good to open up talks between us, what’re your initial thoughts? I plan on playing rather conservatively until I see how some alliances are shaking out.
Same on my end to be honest; first game I've ever played with any money on the line lol
hm, if you're okay starting conservatively, could I make the ask that you start by opening to Tyn or move to take Tun with a fleet?
I’d still plan on moving into ION, it gives me more options.
Yea, I have no issue with Ion in and of itself ~~ id just rather not see you also setting up a Lepanto by prepping a convoy to Tun :p
If you reeeally want to try a Lepanto, we can go for it lol, but I think we'd stall out a bit too much to make it worthwhile
You know what a lepanto is right?
I may be an idiot but I'm not stupid ...
I'm just saying that if you come at me with a Lepanto, I don't think it'd be beneficial for either of us lol
Got it, sounded to me like you were proposing that you and I do a lepanto lol
I doubt Austria would trust me enough for that and yeah I’d have to catch you off guard so even you mentioning one makes it unrealistic
Alrighty, glad we're on the same page -- that means Rome isn't going to apu or nap right ?
It is, I’m not going to do a lepanto though, you can try to defend against it if you’d like but it won’t do you any good. I’m not trying to start a fight with austria immediately either.
I realize this may be alarming to you, but I quite honestly do not want to attack you, in my experience a Lepanto is a lot better deal for Austria than Italy. I am truly planning on just getting my build and then reading the board
We can continue to negotiate if you would like to, I don’t want to start off on the wrong foot.
Have you heard from Austria or Russia yet? I have not. One reason I’m moving the way I am is because I have some interest in Gre, however I’m not going to try and sneak/force my way in there. I was wondering if you and Austria have talked about Gre or if you and Russia had discussed Rum since that has some implications as well.
Nothing of note really, nah
Any news on Austria?
same old pretty much
You havnt heard from them?
Nothing worth telling -- they want me to attack you or Russia of course, but they haven't been too picky about which
Interesting opening, still worried about me?
I'd really appreciate not convoying to Tun
What have you and Austria discussed regarding Gre?
I imagine Austria is going to take it
Anything on your end :p
No I asked about Gre and have not heard back yet.
Are you getting much from Austria?
Would you help me go after Austria?
Sure, what do you have in mind?
I was hoping to get my army into Gre, I’d need support from you though. We’d be able to get you into Ser after that
That sounds reasonable to me -- geographically tho, do you think it could make more sense for you to get tri and ser, while I get Greece?
Maybe we could make that exchange later? I was trying to get my army involved in things
I guess a convoy to Albania would be possible, but then we might have to delay taking Greece hmm
Yeah I’m trying to get that army involved and take a SC this turn because it’s fall. Plus I could use the build with France getting scary. You don’t really have anyone attacking you
Alright, that's fair yea, putting in the order now then
Supporting Tun to Gre?
Yep 👍
Thank you, we’ll get you some builds soon. Have you talked to russia about swapping Rum if he takes more of austria?
We haven't really  discussed that, do you think they'd be open to it?
Possibly, I know he wants to get rid of austria pretty badly so
What’re you doing with Bul this round?
Russia asked for it to support Rum again
What do you think about it attacking Ser? I think that would guarantee it can’t support Gre holding or an attack on Rum
Do you think that would work
I'm a bit nervous about losing bul to be honest
And I don't think the Russians would be super pleased either
I’m just trying to guarantee that I get Gre you know?
Is there a good way to do it?
Yea, I feel you
Gre is supporting me into the AEG (obviously I’m not gonna actually move that way) so that takes away one thing
Austria also has been talking to me about attacking Russia, so maybe I can leverage that
Yeah if you could get him to support Bul to Rum, then we would know that he’s not attacking you or Russia (because obviously you won’t actually attack Rum)
I think he'd probably want to me to support him at this point, while I would in theory be able to take Sev, but I'm not sure that helps us
Cuz that could just free up Ser even more yknow
Alright, I'll be back online in a few hours -- have to go give an exam
Understandable, so currently you are supporting a Rum hold with Bul?
That's what I have, yea
We can leave it as that
Would you like support into Ser this year?
Yes please thanks
If u want to support aeg to con, I'd appreciate it
Hi there! I think us attacking each other early game is pretty dumb, what’re your thoughts?
I agree. Even with the element of surprise, it's just too easy to defend the Piedmont/Marseilles corridor.

If France attacks Italy, it will most likely be Austria who benefits, and likewise if Italy attacks France the spoils probably go to Germany.

Given that, what are your plans? Are you planning to attack Austria early, or thinking of the standard move of: 
F Naples - Ionian
A Rome - Naples
A Venice H
Yeah I’m not planning on going for Austria off the bat, I feel like it usually just locks the two weakest countries into a fight that hurts us both
Understood, good to know!
Seems like everything went pretty much according to plan. Not sure why Turkey stayed in Smy instead of backfilling to Con. Seems a bit passive to me.
He’s scared of me pulling off a lepanto. What’s the deal for you guys, seems like you and england have an agreement at the very least to stay out of ENG. Did you and germany agree to that bounce in Bur?
Yeah, England and I demilitarized the channel, and the bounce with Germany was arranged.
Looks like you guys still have to figure out your 2 on 1 then
My own view is that France can afford to remain neutral longer than England or Germany can. 

As long as I can prevent an English-German alliance, I can afford to remain non-commital and find the right time to strike.

Of course, I already have a hypothesis for who I suspect would be the better ally, but I don't think I can share that :p
Understandable
Not sure if it's true, but I heard England has been telling you I plan to invade Italy?
Would just like to point out that if that were the case, I would have built a fleet in Marseilles. My priority is securing Burgundy, and that's why I built the army.
I had heard that, and was already suspicious. Your fleet going to SC of Spain was alarming. Him telling me that made it worse. The only way I will believe you is if your fleet moves back into the Atlantic.
However there isn’t much I can do to attack you, only defend.
In my view, the fleet going to SC of Spain is a concession to England, but apparently he doesn't see things the same way. I suggest that we demilitarize Western Mediterranean for now. My fleet will go on standby in Lyon to defend Marseilles
Why do you need to defend Mar? I do not want you in the Lyon
Since Gulf of Lyon borders several of my supply centers and none of yours, I view it as part of my territory. However I would be willing to demilitirize it if you agree to demilitirize Tyrrhenean Sea, which is to you what Lyon is to me
That sounds like a good deal to me, agreed
So WES, LYO, and TYS are a DMZ?
Let me confirm with England that they're comfortable with me going to Mid Atlantic in order to get A Portugal out, but agreed if there's no issue there
Okay let me know
If England says no, I'll move to gulf of Lyon first but return to Spain. It provides a temperary hedge while allowing A Portugal to get out
Understandable
Did you hear back yet
Until I hear otherwise from you I will be moving into TYS
Apologies, I didn't hear back from England until after I had retired for the night (I'm in central Europe time, so turn change is early in the morning for me)
Occupying Tys while I am in Lyon is totally fair, but we are now in a bit of a standoff
Yeah we are in a weird position now. How do you want to handle it?
Here I my view:
TYS is more vulnerable for me than LYO is for you, it borders two of my home centers which as opposed to 1 home and 1 neutral for you. Additionally, you are in a very good position to defend those centers if I were to move into LYO. So I propose that I hold in TYS and you move from LYO to Spa SC, (I’m assuming you’re moving Spa to Gas) and when I see that I will leave TYS and our DMZ will be in effect.
Hmmm... Can I assume that F Ionian will be going east, against either Turkey or Austria?
How is your relation with Austria, actually?
The situation with Germany and England has become very messy and delicate. Retreating to Spain makes sense on paper, but it is a very passive move which would also leave me vulnerable if you chase into Lyo
Not sure what ION is doing yet, Austria and I are still talking. The relationship is good though
Has Austria been responsive to you?
They haven't really responded to me, for the most part
What is messy and delicate about it? I think you can see that I will be attacking toward the East. It would not make sense for me to send a lone fleet to attack you.
No they are hard to talk to, they have about one time each day they respond to messages
I mean, if Austria doesn't play ball, I have no way to be sure that you won't pivot west
I think you would see that coming
You will have a unit in Mar and a unit in Spa if you move from LYO to Spa, there wouldn’t be anything I could take
We should figure this out before the game moves
Apologies, was actually about to go to bed - missed your earlier messages
Good to talk about it though?
But on further consideration, I don't have a problem with you remaining in TYS for now
You're right that it's less threatening than I thought at first
Will you be moving out of LYO to Spa?
Can do
Yeah, plus I have made no indication of attacking you this game
That's true, and appreciated!
Of course!
I realize that for now Mar is gonna have to hold
Yeah, there's nowhere it can really go. The most I could do is F Belgium S A Burgundy - Belgium, A Marseilles - Burgundy. But not only does this risk losing control of an important province in Burgundy, it leaves my fleet trapped in Picardy, where England would likely be offended
Yeah it seems like england is being a pain, do you think you guys will make headway with germany this round? That would help give you guys some room.
?
Is he worried about Russia!
He has some justification to be worried about Russia, considering that Russia hit Norway in force and England won't be able to recover it
I'm guarrenteed to take Belgium, but need to see if England can hold Holland and how Germany disbands in order to get a better sense of whether we can continue to push against Germany
Makes sense.
I’m sure russia is trying to get you to help with england
Indeed, as is Germany
No surprises there
Of course not, France is always better off with england as a friend. Not really the other way around though it’s impressive that you pulled that off.
I think the dynamic does matter a bit, but I think as soon as Germany gambled hard for Belgium it made it very difficult to come to a deal with them
Yeah that was weird by him. He was upset about england moving into Hol but like it was open
It was a really strange early game in general
Even as the main beneficiary of early conflict between England and Germany, I wasn't quite sure what to make of it
Naughty naughty
Hehehe worth a shot
I had a pretty terrible turn all around... Was putting in moves at 2am central europe time and ended up with a bunch of misorders
Not gonna pretend I put in a convoy order by accident though
I don’t suppose you’ll realize you have bigger fish to fry and head back?
There would be no hard feelings
Will need to figure out how to recover from that misorder, in general
England isn’t looking too good, russia tricked him last round and now he’s kinda screwed
I’m getting a build in case you needed another reason to back off
Yeah, I'm not on top of my game right now, but I did notice your build and England's dilemma
Alright, I put some thought into it, I think we can turn this around into a mutually beneficial arrangement
I would like your permission to go to Tyrolia
From there, I can break through Germany's line in Munich, and also support you into Austria
I don't think there's too much risk on your end from being stabbed - that unit would be really isolated from the rest of my forces
If you agree, suggest that you do A Venice - Piedmont - Tyrolia and send A Tyrolia - Bohemia
I’m not going to do that, the only benefits are things I could do myself.
Why do you not realize that england is an easier and better target for you?
You can get his SCs well before russia does
You have a point, actually, especially since this fight against Germany is going nowhere
Let me speak to Germany about it
I know I’m biased but I think he’s a lot easier target than I am or Germany is
Part of why I sided with him over Germany is that he seemed more competent. But this is going nowhere, time to reconsider
Yeah you have been strangely loyal to him
I don't think it was a mistake to side with England at the start, but I think I should have cut my losses earlier instead of not only sticking with him, but also opening a second front against you
Still waiting to hear back from Germany, but Russia is on board and that's good enough for me. Germany has reason not to trust me and it might be good to make a demosntration of good faith anyways
I'll draw down A Pie - Mar
Would like to demilitarize Pie going forward, although it would be understandable if there are some hard feelings there
Yeah we can build a DMZ once you have pulled out
Okay now we need to figure out TYS and LYO
I'm perfectly content to just stay as is, to be honest. We could also bounce off each other with F LYO - TYS, F TYS - LYO if you're worried about me going to WES
But if you have something else in mind I"m happy to hear it
I can’t be doing that, I need to use it to support ION with turkey being dumb
Let me think, how late will you be checking messages tonight
Probably not much later to be honest
Been sleeping too late recently
I'm generally averse to just holding, but I can do that for this turn if you need to support F Ionian
Can you just hold this turn instead of hitting it?
Make amends for my ill-fated incursion
Was about to ask, I’ll fix it this coming year
Thank you
Thank you, small amounts of trust regained
They are now twice as large as the next largest power
We need to do something about Russia
Yeah I know they’re getting big
Turkey should be on board for sure, and it seems like England dropped
So need to get Germany on board
Let them know that I promised to cooperate, and that you will back them up if I break my word on this
I will aim to fight the Russians in England while relieving the pressure on Germany in the west
Does this mean you are going to pull out of LYO?
Depends if you are pulling out of TYS :P
Like I said earlier, I'm perfectly content to just stay there, but would also be willing to discuss demilitirization
How does me moving into Tun sound
It would certain be the most parallel option to me moving to Spain
Sounds like a deal to me
Sounds good!
Not a fan of your move to West Med
I know I haven't really earned much trust from you, but we need to present a united front against Russia and Germany or else Russia will win
No you haven’t
For what it's worth, I've kept our demilitirization since our discussion
And Germany is likely to be the main beneficiary in the event of a French collapse
Well, looks like this is it for me
Given that I pissed away a winning position with an ill-advised stab on you, I doubt I'll be missed much
But best of luck for the rest of the game!
Nah we’re going for a three way so that’s it for all of us, good game though!
How’s it going Austria? Looking forward to a fun and exciting game!
Hello Germany.  How do you feel about being friendly?  If so lets leave BOH and TYR as neutral zones.  What do you think?
Yeah let’s do it!
sounds great.  Hopefully when that plays out we can work together more in the future
Yeah for sure!
Hey Austria! How’s it going?
doing great.  your turn worked out reasonably well.  thank you for keeping the territory neutral.  Is there anything we can currently work on together or should we continue to keep neutral for now?
I’d like to make sure the neutral territories in between us stay neutral (boh, tyr, sil). My only concern is that your move to vie is inching closer my way
I will keep all of those as neutral.  I think we can make good allies and hopefully able to help each other in the next year or so
Agreed!! Looking forward to it!
Good evening. I think it's important that we get our affairs in order regarding Sweden; I'm sure you know that you can easily bounce me to keep me out, but I'd like to convince you otherwise. Let me know if there's anything specific you'd like in return, otherwise I think that assistance against possible English attack and an agreement to leave Warsaw, Silesia, and Prussia alone is good.
Hi Russia! Thanks for reaching out. I’m open to an arrangement similar to those terms (neutrality in Pru, Sil, War, Boh if that comes up, as well as and really especially potential assistance against England). I would also like your support into Nwy down the road. I think splitting Scandinavia is reasonable and that takes pressure off of me to look to War as a future build. How does that sound to you? Looking forward to a fun and exciting game!
I'd prefer for us to cooperate to take the British down completely; I get Norway, you get as many British home territories as you can convince the French to let you have. Aside from that, those neutral zones sound good to me.
I’m not sure I’m ready to just hand over Norway and Sweden, unfortunately:/
You'll get Norway then.
Sounds good to me! Thank you so much for being agreeable. I view Norway as a gesture of goodwill and I will definitely remember it. Hopefully, I will find another way to help you in the future 😃
Hey what’s up Russia
Not much, Austria moving toward Vienna's a little weird right? Think that's because they're going to make a second fleet or something?
Oh damn I didn't even see the Brits moving into Holland, was that planned?
Yeah obviously not, which is why I reached out.
It looks like you’re going to have a fight on your hands in Scandinavia and I am very willing to help you however I can.
Well, seeing as it'd be pretty difficult for me to let you have Norway at this point, we should probably talk about that first. I was already building a fleet on the North Coast of St. Petersburg just for insurance against the Brits, but that can easily become an offensive. If you broke any possible support from the North Sea, I could walk into Norway in spring.
Count me in!
Alright, from there I can try to push them out of the North/Norwegian Seas and you can move into the Netherlands and beyond. Have you talked with the French? We don't necessarily need them, but for a proper Sealion their help would definitely be a good thing to have.
Yeah agreed. My theory/fear is that they may be in negotiations with England. France was asking me to take denmark and holland and then all of the sudden changed course and supported my incursion into Belgium.
That is awfully suspicious.
Agreed.
I'll probe them for information, let me see what I can get out of them; even if they were involved with that they'll probably play their cards pretty close to the chest though.
Agreed. I will reach out to Austria to see what’s going on there
Don't expect much, the Austrians aren't exactly what I'd call chatty.
Part of me wants to take the Chanel to keep England on the defensive haha
That'd be a hell of a move if it worked, but I guarantee they're going to be trying to move there to attempt to put themselves in Belgium, so you'd only end up bouncing them.
I'll talk with the Brits too to see if they'll flash their plans at me, I'm on decent terms with them.
That would be great!
The British are immensely cocky about their chances against you, I wouldn't be even slightly surprised to find that they have the French in their pocket for the time being.
Thank you for the intel. What would you advise for me moving forward, particularly with my two incoming builds?
Considering what we're up against, I'd build a fleet in Kiel and an army in Berlin, but you need to switch the army in Denmark for a fleet as soon as possible and get that down to the French border.
If France and Britain are determined to, they can ensure that the fleet in Belgium is destroyed, unfortunately. But they can't do that while also holding both Norway and the Netherlands.
The English and French both made some odd choices with their builds. I think the British anticipate me coming for them.
Not great
Either way, I think I'll be able to outmaneuver them long enough to force a disband.
Have you spoken with the French recently? They haven't done anything overtly aggressive toward you so maybe you can still flip them; I've got reliable intelligence that apparently the English don't approve of that fleet build in Brest so we might be able to break that alliance up with a determined effort.
That’s wonderful news. We’ve spoken a bit. He doesn’t seem particularly committed to england, but the two of them have been speaking.
They're savvy, I think they're playing both sides of the table until it becomes clear who has the upper hand.
Agreed. We need to be in sync with our moves to play the advantage. Let me know what you think would be good next steps for me.
The near term goal in my mind is breaking england to persuade France to complete the sea lion
I'm trying to sow distrust among them at the moment but I don't know if I'll have much luck with England. They're being very cagey. But anyways, the survival of your fleet in Belgium, at this point, depends on you either convincing the French not to block you out of either the English Channel or Piedmont, OR, using the fleet in Kiel to support an attack against the army in the Netherlands; the first isn't ideal because it's relying on the French, but the second isn't ideal because it's keeping Kiel stationary and thus blocking the exit of the Danish army, which is practically dead-weight where it is since it can't support to any of the sea-zones around it. 

I'd move Munich to Ruhr and Berlin to Munich. Additionally, I would do the second option with your fleets whether or not you get an agreement from the French. It leaves you in a much better strategic position even though it effectively ensures the loss of Belgium.
Current orders: F Bel H, A Den H, A Ber - Kie, F Kie - HEL, A Mun S Ber - Kie
I’ve been have good conversations with France
If you're going to have Belgium hold you might as well have it bounce off of the North Sea to break any possible support that it can give, either to Holland or Norway. I have as well, I'm doing everything I can to convince them that attacking the British is a great idea.
Nice! Good call. Any other suggestions? I’m pretty open to anything
Italy says that France and England are allies
They are, but I've been working to break it up. I've not got any suggestions for the time being other than what you have; you should be able to guarantee that you have Holland by the end of the year, though you may lose Belgium in the process.
Cool as long as your on board with my current moveset plus the bounce into the North Sea
I absolutely am. Hopefully the French either stay uncommitted to the attack or join our side.
I ran those other moves by France, with the except of the North Sea move you suggested. Should I tell france to build trust, or would the potential of it getting back to england be risky
I think that it's almost guaranteed that it would get back to the English. I wouldn't tell them much more about your plans at all, if you can help it.
Sounds good! Let me know if you have any other thoughts, if not, my moves are submitted.
If something crosses my mind I'll let you know ASAP.
Great call with the North Sea
What are you thinking for my next steps? I don’t like france’s moves.
France is definitely coming for you, but how's this for a tricksy little solution to the issue: 

Currently you are at serious risk of losing Belgium; that sucks, but if you move yourself to Holland you can avoid the destruction of that fleet. Even better though, if you make another move toward the North Sea, I can now *support* that move with Norway, meaning that unless the British successfully predict that, you are in position to take Edinburgh and threaten London unless they pull fleets back; if they pull fleets back, it takes pressure off of me and allows me to forward-deploy my own fleets, which are currently pinned down by British blockade.

Furthermore, you can move your fleet from the Helgoland Bight into Holland to take it, and use Kiel to support Munich to ensure Munich holds for long enough that the British have to disband. There are risks involved in the maneuver of course. The British could not only move themselves to Belgium, but they could move their fleet from the North Sea into Holland, bouncing you out and keeping all of their forces intact despite the loss of the North Sea.
Word I actually love that strategy.
I’m in. We need to think strategically about what information we deliver to England/France and how.
So I'll be supporting from Belgium to the North Sea then? There's a further significant risk that the British will use one of their fleets in the north to defeat Norway's support and thus keep the North Sea AND Netherlands AND take Belgium.

Personally, I actually am not a fan of the move. Too many risks to be realistically successful this turn, better saved until next year I think. You're better off using the Helgoland Bight to support Belgium in a retreat to Holland for the time being, and then perform this maneuver next year when your position is more solid and the British have lost a unit. If Munich weren't under enough risk that you could use Kiel to support into Holland as well it would be much more viable.

Sorry to be doing all these thought problems in full view, I'm just trying to work out how best to break Britain and get ourselves on the offensive. This turn ain't it though I think.
Doesn't help that the Austrians are actively betraying me.
No no I trust your judgement. If we’re going to win this fight against England, we need to be lock step.
I couldn't agree more.
No, it does not. I have minimal communication with them, we basically exchanged a half dozen messages keeping the neutral territories neutral.
Just so you know in advance, given my newfound conflict with them, I may have to occupy Warsaw indefinitely.
Thanks for bringing that up! Totally fine with me. I have bigger problems for the foreseeable future . Fighting with my one reliable ally is the last thing I want.
Yeah, it's a real touch-and-go situation but I really think that reducing the British for the time being was good progress.
Yeah for sure
What full moveset would you recommend for me?
A Kie S Mun
A Mun H
F Bel - Hol
F HEL S Bel - Hol
A Den H

This moveset still leaves some risk if they anticipate it unfortunately, but I doubt that they'd risk me being able to move to SKA for it. We can only hope though, your position is still extremely unstable.
Where is that London army going? That’s my question.
France is telling me that I need to cede Belgium to him for any further cooperation. While I crave France coming on board for the sea lion, I don’t trust anything he says.
Well it tried to go to Norway, if the British anticipate me being conservatively defensive in Norway (Which is my current plan) then there's the possibility that they will attempt to convoy it to Holland with Ruhr's support. Which wouldn't succeed, but would bounce you enough that they'd keep it.

Either way you can't stop the French from taking Belgium anyways, you might as well agree for the time being.
Yeah that’s fair.
How are your conversations with France going?
I've got a tricky plan to either reverse psychology them into putting us in an advantageous position, or find out if they're trustworthy. Standby.
Dope
Don't tell France anything even remotely specific for the time being, they might just be feigning this willingness to cooperate in order to get strategically useful information to plan their next attack to ideally counter whatever you tell them.
Yeah that’s a good read.
By the way, I'm currently buttering them up with some nonsense about not giving a toss about you. If they come to you as if delivering that as a world shattering revelation, don't be fooled. I'm playing them.
Okay!!! Word.
Yup yup, just didn't want you to be alarmed if the French tried to get you to come after me over some bullshit I said to them.
Word, sounds good.
Don't think I accomplished much honestly.
That’s unfortunate but not unexpected
Yeah, hopefully everything goes well this season.
Hopefully I can at least help you beat them in the future lol
Well if I can break this Blockade the British have me in then I'll be out there in a flash to defeat them with you.
Heck yeah
Let me know how I can help
F Bel - Hol
A Den H
F HEL S Bel - Hol
A Kie S Mun
A Mun H
My current moves FYI
Yep, that looks solid to me.
News from the front, the English just blabbed off-hand to me that the French are going to support themselves into Belgium, which means Munich isn't at risk. I don't know if I trust that intelligence, but it would mean you could use Kiel to ensure entry into the Netherlands.
The English are either far more gullible and temperamental than the English, or they're trying to play me.
I think I might have them duped; they just said that they're going to come talk to you, please relay back what they told you. Maintain the original order set. (Again, my duping them effectively was me agreeing to fuck you over so be aware if they come to you with that nonsense.)
Cheers, I could hardly have imagined better results!
Thanks so much!!! Hopefully English occupation of Belgium will weaken their alliance.
england accidentally sent me a message
“Germany doesn’t have to disband.”
You can tell he’s annoyed lol
Well of course he is; the French supported him into Belgium though so it was probably just so that they wouldn't have to disband *two* units. I honestly wish the French would have taken it instead, you probably wouldn't have the army in the Ruhr sitting around in your business.
Yeah it’s frustrating
I’m worried about holding Munich and holland
I would also love to see us dislodge England from the North Sea.
Hey!!! France is asking me to attack North Sea, he said he wants to turn on england
He told me the same, I don't believe him for a second.
He says: 

F Pic - Eng
A Brit - Pic
F Hol & F Nwy SF HEL - NTH
A Kie S F Hol H
Yeah, he wants to get you out of position.
What moves do you suggest?
I would take a defensive stance for now, support Netherlands and Munich while I move into the Norwegian Sea
A Den S Kie
F HEL S Hol
F Hol H
A Kie S Mun
A Mun H
Works as far as I can see.
Looks like France is sincere
That's rare
Norway will support Helgoland Bight to the North Sea, if you use Netherlands to support as well they may have a hard time stopping us. Kiel needs to move into Ruhr yesterday though, use Munich to support if you can.
I’m in.
A Den - Kie
F HEL - NTH
F Hol S HEL - NTH
A Kie - Ruh
A Mun S Kie - Ruh
Actually,     A Den H
So I can convoy it to the island in the spring
Sounds solid to me.
What’s your long term thinking once we get the leg up on england?
Well, once you're in Ruhr and the North Sea, you can easily muscle your way through the French with Italy's help, the Italians and I take out the Austrians and Turks, we end this with a three way draw if we all stay cordial.
I’m down. I’ve been getting a long great with Italy. Literally nothing would make me happier than that plan.
Yeah, the time limit on this game isn't nearly enough to seek out a solo win anyways so might as well have a ni e draw with the folks I've been trusting the whole game.
Yeah I agree. Honestly makes it more fun as well.
Yep!
Looks like the French had the same general idea as you. Should I support your convoy to Yorkshire with the fleet in Edinburgh?
That would be great! Thanks!
What full move set do you advise?
Ruhr supports Netherlands to Belgium, North Sea convoys Denmark to Yorkshire, Munich holds
What are your thoughts on Ruhr to Belgium supported by Netherlands?
Would mean the fleet in the Netherlands isn't accomplishing anything in the future and would leave Ruhr open to a possible sneak by the French, wouldn't recommend.
Makes sense. Can the English Navy retreat to the Netherlands?
No, you can't retreat to where the attack originated.
Dope.
Hey Russia! What do you suggest for my next moveset? I don’t want France to get two English supply centers haha.
Make a move on Liverpool alone; at worst you'll bounce and I'll be moving to Clyde to help you next season. You should push into the English Channel and try to sneak into Burgundy at the same time.
So what specific moves? I was actually thinking of supporting my army into London with the North Sea to lock in another build.
Then A Ruh - Bur supported by Mun
F Bel H
More long-term gain in taking the Channel
How so? With the North Sea fleet?
So the moves would be:

A Yorkshire to Liverpool
A Ruhr to Burgundy
A Munich S the above
F North Sea to English Channel
F Belgium S the above
With the English channel you can practically walk across France while they panic and shit themselves trying to stop you.
My fear is the fleet in London taking the North Sea
You want my fleet in Norway to follow up?
F Bel H
A Mun S Ruh - Bur
F NTH S Yor - Lon
A Ruh - Bur
A Yor - Lon
This is my moveset rn
I’m okay with that but I want to hold the North Sea long term
Sounds good to me.
I’m really happy with the Russia-Germany-Italy alliance 3 way victory game plan. Things are looking really good right now and I think it’s important that the three of us make sure we’re on the same page as to what that map looks like
Agreed, need to make sure we're all relatively equal.
Exactly. I think eating up most of the French and English supply centers should bring me up to parity. What do you think the balkans look like for you and Italy?
Everything I don't have right now is going to Italy.
Nice!!!!
Here’s my updated moves based on your recommendations
F Bel S NTH - ENG
A Mun S Ruh - Bur
F NTH - ENG
A Ruh - Bur
A Yor - Lvp
What time is it for you?
Seems legit; it's about six, why?
Same! Wanted to see if you were on the east coast as well. I’m based in DC
Indianapolis here
Things are looking good!
Sorry for occupying Warsaw, the army in Galicia makes me nervous of a spiteful Austria checking in and sending some spiteful orders
Hey Russia don’t worry about it at all!
I’m thinking about sending my fleet in Belgium to the North Sea. Would you support me there?
I can certainly do that.
Actually here’s my move set
F Bel - Pic
A Ber - Mun
A Bur - Gas
F ENG S Bel - Pic
F Kie - HEL
A Lvp H
A Mun - Bur
Maybe you could bounce France in the North Sea this turn and then support HEL - North Sea in the fall.
My only concern with that order set is the possibility of losing the Channel
What would you advise?
F Bel S Bre - ENG
A Ber - Mun
A Bur - Gas
F ENG H
F Kie - HEL
A Lvp H
A Mun - Bur
I say go for your original anyways, I doubt the French will go for it and you'll be able to take it back anyways
Sounds good. Are you okay with bouncing the north sea with France (my guess, who knows what he’ll actually do) and then supporting HEL in during the Fall?
Sure, I can do that.
Thanks for the help there!
What do you think for next steps? I’m a bit concerned about Belgium with France holding bur
The Italians have me somewhat concerned, they definitely don't need to be moving troops this direction anymore.
From my communication with him, he seems totally supportive of the alliance.
So long as you don’t stab him, I don’t see him stabbing you. But we haven’t talked a ton. I could chat him up to get a better feel for where his headspace is at.
Go ahead, I would hate for this to fall apart at the last moment.
Yeah for sure.
What do you think my moves are? I’m a little worried about France and figuring out where to get my next build.
Have Picardy withdraw to Belgium, have Munich move to Ruhr, have Berlin move to Munich, and have Gascony move to Spain. I'll support you into the North Sea and I'll poke them in the Mid-Atlantic to keep them from supporting anything with it.
Nice!!! Thanks so much. I shot Italy a note and I’ll let you know when I hear back.
Dope, thanks!
A Ber - Mun
F ENG S HEL - NTH
A Gas - Spa
F HEL - NTH
A Lvp H
A Mun - Ruh
F Pic - Bel
Look good?
Looks good!
Here’s what I got
F Bel S ENG
A Bre H
F ENG S Bre
A Lvp H
A Mun S Ruh - Bur
F NTH - Lon
A Ruh - Bur
Let me know if you have any feedback
And HAPPY NEW YEAR! Cheers to the Russia-Germany-Italy alliance!
Happy New Year to you too! Sorry for the delayed response, was drunk as heeeeeeeeeell last night. Your order set seems good! I'm going to force my way into the Mid-Atlantic, that'll be a death sentence for the French.
Amen! Glad you had a blast
Hey Russia! Things are looking good against France. What do you recommend for my next move set.
Picardy to Paris, supported by Burgundy; Munich Hold; Belgium to Picardy; English Channel to London, supported by North Sea; Liverpool to Wales, Irish Sea supports. Liverpool is safe, because Wales can just move straight back, and so is Edinburgh, because I can just bounce them out there as well. Paris is occupied and safe, Picardy is primed to take Brest.
Paris can't hold, because I'll be using North Atlantic to poke Brest.
Excellent! Thanks for all the help Russia!
Move into Brest with the fleet in Picardie, and set yourself to three-way draw and we'll have it.
Sounds great man! Thanks for everything!
Hey Germany,  how are things going? Would you like to have alliance was against France?
What’s up England!! Things are good! TGIF
I’m not looking to commit to anyone just yet, I hope that’s no trouble!
Ok... do you mind if I ask how your relationship with France is?
Not well formed at this point
Have you been talking to Russia much?
Not much. Why?
Just feeling around
I’m so excited to be playing this game! Now that things are calming down with the holidays I will have more free time.
Yea, an early attack  from russia wouldn’t be fun
Nice
No it wouldn’t! For either of us!
Hey Germany. What are you thinking about an alliance? We can't wait forever... also what about Belgium? I'm assuming we both want it, and a bounce would not be good, as it would mean nothing for both of us.
If you agree to attacking france, I would be willing to let you have Holland AND Belgium. I would launch a full-on russia attack, with Yorkshire to Norway, and Nwg to Bar. Denmark would be left empty for that year and then you or me (depending on the situation) could get it in 1902. What do you think?
Because... your only going to be able to have 2 of Belgium, Denmark, or holland this year
Hmm. I’m not willing to give up denmark thats a quick pick up for me.
I would however be down to work together in exchange for passage into Belgium this turn and Holland next turn with one of my new units.
I mean, it's up to you. But both Belgium and Holland are easy pick ups to
Yeah it’s true
How about I stay neutral for a turn or two. I don’t want to wed myself to an alliance just yet but I would be down to decline any offers from France to turn on you. I can’t stay neutral for very long but I think I can get through a few turns.
Wait... your saying that in order to work with you I *need* to give you Belgium and Holland? Do you realize how ridiculous that is? France wants an alliance with me too, you know... and while I would rather work with you, if your going to make demands like that...
ehh no net really saying that’s a necessary condition lol
But of course I would like them
Obviously france is reaching out to me too
I want to communicate with you, because there are 3 centers up for grabs here, and 3 units to get them. Now, if we bounce, it's mutually bad. But if we can communicate, we can end up getting all of them. Because I REALLY don't want to see a strong russia, and I think they are an easy target for england, I would really like to attack them. I'm planning on moving to Nwy and BAR, and offering you both Holland AND Belgium, as long as you don't move to denmark this turn.
If your not interested, than which centers would you like?
I’m open to it!! What’s the rational for me staying out of Denmark though? Just curious.
I'm not saying you shouldn't move there, as that is typically a german center. I'm fine with you moving there later, it's just you wouldn't be able to get there this turn if you take Holland and Belgium.
I see! Do you see an issue with me taking denmark now and holland later?
You could. I think it would be better to get Holland now and Denmark later though, since that would put more pressure on france and would also be more defensively sound.
that makes sense! My view is that with you and Russia fighting it out over Scandinavia, I’m a little more worried about protecting myself there.
I hope you don’t mind if I go through with Denmark!
Okay
I also think the move to Belgium puts pressure on France.
Germany doesn’t have to disband
Wrong person lol
How’s it going Turkey? Looking forward to a fun and exciting game!
it's going good!
That’s great! I’m so excited for this game
Greetings, Germany!

The risk of an early conflict between France and Germany is pretty high, so suggest that we clear the air early on.

The biggest question here is Burgundy, which borders one of your home supply centers and two of mine. It is important to me that Burgundy remains unoccupied - my suggestion is that we set up a bounce between A Munich - Burgundy, A Paris - Burgundy. This has the secondary benefit of allowing us to put on some theater about how the other broke their word to win sympathy points. I also believe that Germany often wants A Munich to stay put anyways, to guard against an attack through Tyrolia.

Let me also know your thoughts regarding Belgium. I am not super attached to claiming it, so would be open to bargain my support on the Belgian question for a future alliance.

Best of luck to you!
Hi France! Thanks for taking the initiative and for your thoughtful message. Let’s do the bounce in Burgundy! I’m really looking forward to getting to know you and everyone in this game!
Appreciated. What are your thoughts on F Kiel to Denmark vs Netherlands? Assuming Berlin to Kiel is a typical no brainer
I’m going to Hol, if that’s alright with you? I’m very interested in your idea of giving me free pass into Belgium for an alliance against England.
I would have preferred a move to Denmark, but Holland isn't a problem for me either - it's up to you.
Are you aiming to claim Belgium in year 1? As it is, there's no way for you to get three builds so curious which two you will prioritize.
I’m down to do into bel it you feel comfortable with it!
I'd personally prefer that you take Denmark and Holland than Belgium, but I won't stop you if you're set on Belgium.
Actually just spoke to England, and changed my mind. I think it makes more sense for you to go to Belgium.
Why? What did england tell you?
What is your relationship with France like?
Sorry typo! I meant to say england lol
England hasn't been very talkative with me, but our conversation has been pretty cordial
Anyways, what are your thoughts in terms of builds? F Kiel is a near given if you want to seize Holland
Gotcha. I’m pretty unnerved by the holland move. That wasn’t planned. I told him I wanted to stay nutreal between the two of you as long as I can.
Yeah I’m thinking F Kiel, A Ber
Taking Belgium so that you could easily fill Holland later seems a bit aggressive for someone wishing to stay neutral
Yeah that was not the move in retrospect
Got too big for my bridges
Still, even if that his reasoning, it seems like a very bold move by England
Yeah it makes me uncomfortable
Well, things could be a lot worse. If Russia had convoyed A Livonia to Sweden, they could occupy the Baltic
Curious to see what England will build though
Me too.
It will be very telling.
I’m definitely interested in working out a peace on our front so I can focus on battening down the hatches from the English attack.
I'm always happy to listen to offers. What were you thinking?
I mean I’m pretty much at your deposal
Literally I’m really annoyed that england moved into holland and so I’m down to organize a sea lion on your terms
My fleet in Brest will hopefully pressure England into moving to the channel, meaning that you might be able to take Holland with Belgium and Kiel
Can then backfill with A Kiel and aim to get your fleets at sea to convoy A Denmark out
Would want to see A Munich go east instead of continuing to bounce in Burgundy as well
Let me know your thoughts on these
Put some more thought into it, and I think my earlier suggestion is stupid. Please ignore it.

I think we will need to gauge whether Russia will move against England. To that end, suggest that F Kiel move to Heligoland while A Munich supports A Berlin to Kiel
We can then see if Russia attacks Norway before taking first steps.
My sense is that Russia is looking to move against England
Current orders: F Bel H, A Den H, A Ber - Kie, F Kie - HEL, A Mun S Ber - Kie
Got it, makes sense
Hey France - can you explain your burgundy move to me? It’s really hard for me not to read your moveset as you and England teaming up against me.
I'll be blunt - I think it's very difficult for France to work with Germany while Germany holds Belgium. There's simply nowhere else that French armies can go
With the moves I suggested to you, you should be well placed to seize Holland while I take Belgium. This would then put us in place to evict England from the North Sea and convoy out
If you are interested in working together, you should order A Kiel & F Heligoland support F Belgium - Holland, or else use F Heligoland and F Belgium to attack the North Sea. In my view, yielding Belgium is a precondition to further co-operation
Makes sense! I got a little over-ambitious on the Belgium play and am open to yielding it to you.
My fear is that you will work with England to attack Mun.
It would be an extremely risky proposition for  me, since A Ruhr is likely to have it's support cut.
A Burgundy S A Ruhr - Munich is more likely to succeed, but I don't see what's in it for me
Okay, so my attempt to attack you went nowhere
Would you be willing to bury the hatchet and focus on England?
Not asking you to trust me on this before I demonstrate my seriousness
But assuming I go to the channel, would you be willing to follow with an attack on NTH?
I am very very on board
Let me look at it I’m out right now but I am very interested in that move
Right, I've already asked Russia about this, they should be on board
My suggestion is:
F Pic - ENG
A Bit - Pic
F Hol & F Nwy S F HEL - NTH
A Kie S F Hol H
Let me know your thoughts, but keep in mind that it's getting late in central Europe time, so I might not be able to change the orders before the deadline if you suggest revisions
What are your planned moves?
What is Russia thinking of doing?
I think Russia is on board with those moves
Apologies, I didn't see these because I forgot to rate some earlier messages
We need to do something about Russia though - they are now twice the size of the next biggest power
I can withdraw from Burgundy if that would ease cooperation
Yeah withdraw if you like
What are you thinking with Russia?
Russia is on track to winning. I think we need to out in a united front to contain them.
If Denmark and NTH hit Norway and Sweden while Hol backfills to NTH, that would put a lot of pressure on them
Munich could also go to Silesia while Ruhr fills into Munich
Russia is well on their way to winning - we need to put up a united front against them if we want to have a shot
Are you in?
As I'm sure you know, Turkey is a potential threat to us both. I'd like to talk to you about possibly curtailing that threat.
I can't be online but I am open to hearing your ideas
*** online too much longer is what I meant to type
Well, the ideas mostly consist of cooperating to take them down, you, me, and the Italians. I'm going to be moving from Warsaw to Ukraine to take Romania and I'm going to be bouncing them in the Black Sea.
so. I am open to working with you.. but I would like to see you leave Gal as a neutral territory and I will as well
That's my intent; I was going to ask you to do the same but you beat me to it.
sounds good.  we will do that and learn that we can trust one another
Excellent, looking forward to working together.
great.  enjoy your weekend and catch you in the fall season 🙂
I can use the army in Rumania to support you into Bulgaria this season and the Turks can't stop it.
Ok, I've actually made a huge planning breakthrough, bear with me. I've got the Turks duped into thinking I'm on their side, so I'm going to be supporting them to stay put in Bulgaria in Spring. Their plan is to move their fleet in Constantinople to the Aegean and for the plan to work it's important that that succeed.

In the Fall, I'm going to be convoying an army directly into Constantinople, because the Turks are allowing me to move my fleet into the Black Sea. We'll have them destroyed within the next year, and then we can pivot to the French and Germans.
so... if they are letting you into the black sea then why don't you support me into  Bulgaria and then I can support you into Constantinople?  they made a bad move in the first year so together we could take them out I believe pretty handily
For several reasons: If we take Bulgaria this season they're pushed back into Constantinople with the possibility of three units supporting and not even close to enough units for us to push through them. If we take Constantinople and Bulgaria simultaneously in Fall, we not only deprive them of an additional build, we also put ourselves in the position to destroy them in the next year completely.
Hey, you cool? You're making a lot of aggressive moves here. I need you to chill out before you ruin the entire offensive. I told you well in advance of the end of the turn that I was tricking the Turks here and that we'd have you in Bulgaria by the end of this turn, why are you doing this?
i didn't believe you.  if you really wanted to work with me there was no reason not to help me into bulgaria when i could have then leant my help in return.  all you had to do was move moscow into sevestapol and your fleet into black sea and we could have been golden.  when you told me you weren't going to help that said to me that this is a set up.  I am not sure where this leaves us but we could have been in a much stronger position
Are you serious? Did you even read what I sent to you? I told you that we were going to take Constantinople and Bulgaria in one fell swoop in the fall, take the Turks completely by surprise and have them annihilated before the next build phase; if the army in Bulgaria was knocked back to Constantinople we'd have another two years of maneuvering to knock them out ahead of us. You ruined that.
dude... look at the map/  that would not work.
unless he was completely stupid there is no chance that could possibly have worked
It literally did work! It would have worked like a charm if you hadn't messed it up! The Turks trust me implicitly! I could have landed in Constantinople and they'd have been taken entirely by surprise because they thought I was allied to them! I told you literally all of this
so you were trusting him not to do that as well even with his army sittin right in Arm
then at best you et the territory you wanted. i get nothing, and at worst he takes sevestopol from you because that is what he told me he was going to do
no because if that was the case they wouldnt trust me and the would defend bulgaria
sorry man ive played this too many times to know what was likely to happen in that situation
His army in Armenia is a feint, play fighting because he didn't want you and Italy to think that we were on the same side, which I specifically told you was happening because I needed you to fucking trust me when, for one turn, I supported the Turks to stay put to keep the subterfuge up. I was going to build in Sevastopol to prevent them coming toward me once the act fell, you were going to be 2:1 going into Bulgaria because the Italians were going to cut its only possible support. You were going to get Bulgaria, I'd get Constantinople, and the next season would see us wipe them out the rest of the way.
again.  if he is trusting you then he is not trusting me.  which means you take the territory and I dont
Are you a fucking amateur? Greece+Serbia outnumbers Bulgaria, they can't get support from the Aegean because the Italians were going to cut that support, it was going to be a fucking walk-in victory with the added bonus of forcing that army to disband because I'd have parachuted into Constantinople.
I have the Turks practically taking marching orders from me, this was going to be the perfect offensive until you decided to go off script.
Whatever, it doesn't matter. We can get back on track; The Turks are going to go whole-hog on Greece, you'll have to support it to keep it. Remove yourself from Galicia away from my territory, regain my trust, and we'll restart from where we were Spring this year. If you don't, then you've got quite the situation on your hands. One that Austria never wins.
the only way he can take greece is with your help
which means why would i trust you and leave galicia
there needs to be some sort of trade that might make things believeable between the 2 of us
He's assuming that you're going to use all your support on attacking Rumania and that Italy's going to make another play for the Eastern Med, obviously. In fact, it's not even possible for me to anything more than tangentially involved, and that's assuming that you were going to use your support from Serbia toward Greece anyways. I'm just telling you what he told me, if you want to criticize his tactics talk to him. 

What's this trade you're proposing?
Quite frankly, since you're the one doing the betraying and I have thusfar told you literally nothing but the truth and tried to help you, I feel absolutely no need to give you much, but I'm curious about your proposal anyways.
No proposal then?
I was not home for the night.
Ah, I see.
well i am going to watch the caps hockey game.  I will be back after to see what you have to say.. but any suggestion will have to go along with you trusting me to leave my army in gal.  in exchange you would have to help me somehow and if the trust holds then next year i could move out of gal.  anyhow. i will be back on probably around 10:30p
out watching the caps vs bruins game with some friends
anyhow.  my suggestion was going to be I stay in gal for a turn and you support me into bulgaria with rum.  that still allows you to also take one of turkeys territories if he still trusts you.  if that happens I move out of gal next turn renewing the safe border and then we finish off turkey
we can still accomplish the same thing
im honestly not sure how we trust each other right now. it would be a leap on both our parts.
what are your thoughts?  I need to make moves and get some sleep!
Ill check messages in the morning before I make moves.  I need to get some sleep.  until later
No. I did nothing to break your trust. You move out of Galicia or I won't deal with you. We made an agreement, I told you in advance of all my plans and you raised only minimal objections, before deciding to make moves to betray me. 

I won't be coerced into allowing you to break our very first agreement just because you didn't think hard enough about what I told you to see how it would work.
i wrote that since it didn't seem like you were responding.
i will move out of galecia
Alright, I'll support you into Bulgaria then.
why didn't you take con?
Because I didn't have the chance to change my orders and was in full panic mode about you betraying me when I wrote them.
ah well.  i didn't get to edit my orders either
i didnt realize he was going to adjusticate so quickly
i was trying to adjust my orders after i saw your message
ah well. i need to go to bed.  im too tired for this. good night
Sleep well
Hey, I can get the Italians to back off of Tyrolia if you disband the fleet in the Adriatic instead of the one in Albania. They need to fight the French off and their move into Greece and Tyrolia was something that was going to be called off if last night's adjudication hadn't happened so damn fast.
Hey Austria, just dropping in to say hello. Our paths probably won’t cross for a while, but may I suggest you attack Russia? I think an Austria-turkey alliance would work well, since I’ve seen *WAY* to many games where Russia is left to their own devices and all of the sudden have half the board. Anyways, good luck and have fun!
I wish you luck as well.  perhaps we can work together further into the game.
So.. what are you thinking about Russia? I would hate to see them run off with the game this early on... especially because turkey doesn't seem like the most competent player.
I am honestly undecided.  Russia had a nice first turn, but we also agreed on a good neutral territory and that promise was kept so.. I like people who are trustworthy
Hey there neighbor
Thoughts on how we want to split the Balkans?
Hello there yourself
what are your thoughts?  I haven't spoken to anyone else yet so. I am open to ideas before that.  We would most certainly need to deal with Russia sooner rather than later
Agreed -- I'd rather deal with Russia from the get go as well. Have you heard anything from Italy tho? I'm kind of worried of committing north if they're an unknown quantity
All I have heard from Italy thus far is they don't want to fight so... hopefully that is the case
yea, hopefully -- my hands are kinda tied until they commit somewhere tho, so I'll probably be playing pretty neutral too
Italy also mentioned they were interested in going for Greece, so might be best to go there with support just in case ya
I appreciate the heads up.  why didn't you move your army in Smyr up?
This setup is better for fending off Italy if they come my way, and I also have the option of going to Arm this turn
So what's the plan now?
I am not sure. things are certainly a lot tighter.  And it is more difficult since you didn't move your army up earlier. what ideas do you have?
Hey... haven't heard from you. I would like to make some plans for movement
Sorry, your messages just came though for some reason
we could coordinate an attack on Rum while I deploy my fleets towards Italy perhaps?
just so you know. I think we should be working against Russia.  Apparently you let him know that you would let him into the black sea which he is talking to me about taking advantage of... if you help me into rum we should be able to get you into sevestapol in the fall
I agree -- I figured getting into sev could be easier if he thinks he can move his fleet
I currently have my orders supporting Ser, unless you want to go with Bud instead?
i told russia i would help him take con in fall if he helps me take bulgaria in spring
i think that would work right?
if you move fleet smy into con and con into ank i think he would be able to stop us from getting you into sevastapol
I would prefer budapest
if he believes me then that could work really well for us.
Alright, sounds like a plan then
cool.  I think this could work out really well
Sorry I had to lead you along like that -- I wasn't sure if you'd go along with this plan, but now Russia trusts me so we can definitely get into rum and sev and they won't have time to retaliate with the fleet in Bla
dude. I don't think you get how this works.  There is zero reason for me to trust you now, and you gave up a great opportunity to hurt a difficult to deal with country.  plus you gave up the black sea which lets him threaten Con and Ank.
one thing i will say is you can probably take sevestapol if you want it... i think he trusts you pretty much completely.  i don't know his plans now, but before this past turn his entire plans was to work with me to take you out so... i would be warry that he we take territory from you
I am a bit new at this stuff, sorry
Greetings, Austria!

We don't have any immediate discussion points, but thought I would check in with you since it can be dangerous for me if Austria collapses early, and that is a serious risk if Austria is a newbie (not sure if you are).

Suggest that you get Germany on your side early. They will be dangerously exposed if you struggle early. You should ask them to send F Kiel - Denmark with the message to Russia that if he attacks you (with A Warsaw - Galicia instead of Ukraine), he will block them out of Sweden.

Good luck, and have fun!
Greetings to you as well.  I wish you luck and I will certainly keep all of that in mind
Seems like year one went well for you! Have both Greece and Serbia in the bag! How are your feelings on Italy?
I am friendly with them thus far.  I am open to discussion in general about how we might be able to work together.
Haha I'm sure Turkey would be very alarmed to hear that
Still though, you seem well placed!
Well. I started off friendly with both of them.  haven't exactly figured out what I am going to do yet as I am still waiting to hear from both of them at the moment.  What is your relationship with Italy like at the moment?
There's been some tension as Italy is concerned about my presence in the Mediterranean. However, it seems to be mostly defused. I would prefer to keep things cordial for now
If you would be interested in a joint attack, I might change my mind and join, but I am also happy to stand by if you see them as an ally
lets see where things lie at the end of this year.
Sure, that's reasonable. I think it will be an interesting year
Okay, Italy predicted my move to Tuscany, but yyou've been stabbed by Italy as well
They'll probably build in Venetia and try to hit Trieste
Would you be willing to support me into Venice?
probably.  I messed up big time with some crappy communication and then last minute moves.  I think I much prefer playing this game in person then over the computer
The dynamic is definitely very different.  Typically misorders are rarer playing on line - which also makes them costlier
Hey Russia, looking forward to a great game 🙃. I think we should discuss Scandinavia 😉 and how to split it up. I’m not interested in attacking you, at least for a while. Hopefully you feel the same way. Anyways, good luck and have fun!
Always good to discuss things in advance to avoid unnecessary nonsense. I'm not particularly interested in Norway so long as you're not interested in Sweden.
Sounds good
That was a hell of a bluff you must have pulled to put that army in the Netherlands
Thanks 😊.
So I'm guessing you plan on hitting the Germans then? Need help with that?
Well... I suppose I could let you have/help with Berlin, but don’t build any fleets
That's asking a whole lot considering how the Britain/Russia paradigm often ends.
I would like to focus all my attention on Germany, which could leave me a bit exposed. You don’t seem to be meeting all to much resistance over there, and I really don’t want to be attacked from you. I am not interested in attacking you as I have my hands full with Germany, and making sure France doesn’t turn
I definitely understand that, and I trust you, but it's better to trust and *also* verify.
Verify... how?
By making it harder for you to simply walk into St. Petersburg with no consequences, if you chose to do that.
Do you think perhaps the French intended to build the opposite things in opposite places? It seems an odd choice to do what they did there.
Agreed...
Either that or they're up to something very squirrely.
This turn's going to be quite a weird one isn't it?
I suppose. Any way I can persuade you to give me my supply center back?
Considering you tried to land an army, clearly aiming to overpower first St. Petersburg and then Sweden and so on and so forth, I would rather not if I'm honest. It pains me to see that I guessed correctly that you'd try to launch an offensive, but I'm not fool enough to step aside and let it happen now that I know. No offense.

You could likely walk into Belgium though, considering the Germans and French have talked (Partly through me, which was weird tbh) and agreed that the Germans will walk out, and the French will occupy it with a single unit; you could overpower that easily. I doubt that's part of your plan though all things considered.
You sure? France said they were going to support themselves in and, so far they have been 100% honest with me. I totally understand you not giving me Norway back, I would probably do the same. But... what if I did something for you in return? I could support you into Denmark. Frankly, I would rather you have it then them. This would be, of course, provided you give me Norway back.
I'm just telling you what they told me dawg.

And I'm afraid that for defensive purposes, relinquishing Norway at this point isn't really an option. I can assist you in taking Denmark, and possibly Kiel so long as I get Berlin, but Norway is too vital. I'd need you to get out of the Barents first of course.
If I keep attacking Norway, it's really going to gridlock you.
If I keep talking to the French and they see you bouncing off of Norway season after season, do you think they might start seeing my point of view?
I don't want to, it's bad for me too. Especially if what you said is true, I'm going to lose two centers this turn
I'd prefer to take that army elsewhere. Neither of us gains much of anything by being enemies but the more time passes with your fleets so far away from Liverpool, the more the French might see you as an easy target. If you have to deconstruct two units this turn you'd have a hard time stopping them too. That's just my personal take though.
No, I'm worried about france too. Why do you care about how well I do?
Lol france is asking for me to support into Munich AND belgium, leaving me at 3, them at 7, and liverpool exposed.
I'd rather have more troops in the south. Things are getting weird. I also think that France is using you; every time I talk to them they're very lukewarm on the topic of you, furthermore, with them fighting the Germans and soon to be the Italians, they'd be an easy target if you moved fast enough. I think if you talked to the Germans they'd be more than willing to discuss.
Also lmao that'd be a disgustingly arrogant deal for them to offer, I almost don't believe you.
I stabbed germany with holland, they don't like/trust me. I do get the sense france is trying to use me.
No, I'm serious. I tried explaining how stupid that was to them and they were like "Munich is really importand for France, and from there I could support you into Kiel/Berlin.
I think that if you earnestly offered, and proved your willingness to work with the Germans by pulling off of them for a season, that they'd be all too willing to pivot to the French, personally.
That's a set up to build a fleet in Brest to pick you off solo, I can almost guarantee it.
Or, it's just russia trying to persuade enland to attack France, who he doesn't want to see becoming to powerfull 😉
Lol I'm allowed to have ulterior motives aren't I? I admit that that would be a good outcome, but just speaking honestly and frankly, you have no chance of stopping a French solo if all goes wrong for you this turn, how long will it take before they see you as liability that they can't afford? I'm just offering options aside from that, because tbh that's always a depressing outcome for the English.
The Entente is a powerful alliance for France, but it's never more than a silver medal for the English.
ok. Support me into Denmark this turn and we have a deal
Ill attack them
I want a season of you backing away from St. Petersburg first. Again, no offense, but if I say "yes" to that and you believe me, it's a golden opportunity to take Norway back for you, and I don't know that you'd pass it up.
If you're being honest, your fleet has nothing to do in the Barents anyways
I still want to do an agreement where I get norway and you get Denmark.
Barents would move to Norway
Alright, you have yourself a deal. If you're lying though, it's back to basics.
I'd prefer we exchange those at a later date though.
I... really need supply centers. Let me talk to france and germany, and I'll let you know in a bit what the plan is.
If Barents is gone, Nwy isn't a threat. in fact, I am a bit worried that you won't hold your word, and even if you do, Nwy will be easy for you to get with Sweden and Stp
If Barents is gone it's 3 v 3 and I wouldn't be able to get back in if I wanted to, you'd still have the North Sea and Norwegian Sea.
Well, barring the Germans, but they're about to lose 2 supply centers so not much to fear there.
No, i need fleet Nth for many things, and won't always support norway
Well that just means you'll have to trust me as much as I'm having to trust you with this move, eh?
Yeee
Besides, part of you moving away from the Barents is that I want to be able to move that army goddamnit, lol
huh?
The army in St. Petersburg. St. Petersburg is perhaps the last place I want to have it.
Right.... where *is* norway going?
Army Stp can't move into the barents...
Unless you invented submarines
St. Petersburg of course. It's not got much else to go to. I'm proposing BAR as a sort of demilitarized zone; the reason I want the army out of St. Petersburg isn't so I can build there, it's so that it can go help in the south.
Moscow, Warsaw, and Sevastapol are all further south than Stp...
You are correct, and that's why I want the army to go down there to help out silly head. Not sure where the confusion stems from.
"the reason I want the army out of St. Petersburg isn't so I can build there". Build in Stp = fleets to attack england
OH SHOOT, you said "isn't" I thought you said "is"
lmao
Yeah lol, no worries, that shit happens to me all the time.
Wait, so do you want to do the norway + denmark thing this turn?
That is correct.
k
I'd prefer to have that buffer period where you move away, but you seem adamant on that.
Well, I'm moving away at the same time. It's up to you if you leave Stp there for a turn or not.
Where is Nwy going?
Well yes, the big concern is whether or not you'll actually support me into Denmark; have your cake and eat it too sort of situation.
this move does kinda require a lot of trust
I suppose it'd go to Sweden first before heading off to St. Petersburg.
Either that or swoop down to the Baltic
Ok, I'm going to be 100% honest hear. Its a huge pain in my ass to support you into denmark this turn. I don't want to lose you as an ally. Can we do it next turn?
Also I gtg pretty soon, but ill be back withing 1.5 hrs
If we don't do denmark this turn, we don't have to do norway this turn, but I would really appreciate it as I need the centers, and also it would be getting out of the Baltic. I don't think I'm going to be able to get out of there otherwise, as I'm not sure my move from NWG to NTH will go through
I don't know if I'm going to be losing a supply center in the south this turn, I can't afford to not gain one to compensate, you know how it is. Sorry but I really need Denmark if I'm losing Norway
Alright, that's reasonable to me.
Not doing the trade this turn I mean
Then you not losing a center!
It seems as if you are controlling turkey. They are a stupid player and you can steal a center with them.
I know that's optimistic, but it's worth a try.
🧙‍♂️
God if only you knew how complicated things are down there. For every message doing legwork up here I'm sending two down there, either to the Italians, the Turks, or the Austrians. I definitely can't afford to make an enemy of the Turks right now in any case.
😤 fine
For all the nail biting I'm doing in the north, I'm like that gif of Jordan Peele from Key and Peele sweating up a storm in the south, lol
HOLD UP, russia. your not losing a center. I already owned Norway.
I said "Losing one in the south" not losing one overall, if I were to give Norway AND then lose a center in the south however, I would be at -1, and have to disband.
your not going to lose one in the south
Tell that to the Austrians
lol. Talk to them. Get turkey to support you.
If only it was that easy. The Austrians distrust me now. I'm going to be real with you, they're massive idiots. The Turks already support me but even with their support it's possible to lose either Rumania or Warsaw, depending on if I guess correctly.
gah. Fine
want to bounce somewhere so it doesn't look like were allies?
with Bar
You could easily bounce off of Stp or Norway and tell anyone suspicious that you thought you could easily get tricky, or something of that nature.
sure
JSYK France is being squirrely and talking to me about pivoting on you.
Greetings Russia ! I have a proposal for you
Excellent! I'm always open to a good proposal. What do you have for me?
I figure that since this setup means there are no groups chats, it'll be pretty hard to coordinate against us, so if we can get a Juggernaut rolling, we'll be pretty unstoppable
Agreed, though I don't think that it'd be much harder to coordinate through the multiple channels, even if that does mean that there's potentially more room for deception.
Well, in any case, if you want to go for it, if definitely be game
I'd
I'm down for it, sure
Great! What do you think about openings then? For now I put in something pretty standard, but if you want we could also try something fancier
Also a heads up, at anyone nosing around, I'm acting like I'm not sure what I'm doing / considering going after you -- just thought you should hear it from me first
I think we should stay conventional for the time being, after all, it's convention for a reason. And that's a good policy, keep your opponents underestimating you and they'll be surprised when you start whupping them.
Alrighty, sounds good to me
So a bounce in Bla then?
Sounds good to me
👍
Would you be ok holding sev this turn so I can start to send my fleet towards the Mediterranean?
if so, one idea we could go for if we want to simulate conflict between us is I move to rum, and you support yourself in, so it looks like I was trying to bounce you
hopefully then you can get Austria to trust you and leave themselves vulnerable
Can do, and also I very much like that idea, keeps them from catching on too early.
Great, sounds like a plan then
I'll probably be sending my other army to Syria then, so I can build a fleet in Smy and start moving West
Unless you think it should go to Armenia for extra play action?
Armenia makes it harder to be in position when the fighting starts if you ask me, from Syria you can easily convoy out, but either way works for me.
mm, thats fair yea -- I'll think it over and get back to you on that then
ok, so here's what Im thinking: I'm pretty suspicious of a Lepanto coming from Italy/Austria, so I don't think I'll really have the opportunity to convoy in the immediate future
That being said, I think we can still make good progress if we can catch Austria by surprise with our alliance, so I'd say it's more important to prioritize the fake aggression
And then in the spring, the army can fall back to Syria/Smyrna to block up a Lepanto if it comes to that
That scans to me, yeah. It certainly is shaping up to be a pretty standard Lepanto right now.
What's the plan for Spring? Do we spring the trap now?
I think we probably should -- do we want to attack ser right away or just focus on holding what we have while we bring our other units into position?
Attacking Serbia without support moving into Bulgaria risks leaving it empty with an enemy fleet in the Aegean if the Austrians attack with the fleet in Greece, and would likely just bounce if they tried to attack with the army in Serbia. Maybe wait a turn to get fleets into better positions?
Alrighty, I'd be on board with that
Would it be possible to get your support in holding onto Bul then, or do you think we should keep up our pretending? (if possible, id like to be able to move my fleet to aeg)
I can do that yeah. Things would be easier and more fluid defensively if I moved into the Black Sea, but I get if that would be trusting me a little farther than you're willing to.
I was just about to suggest that myself actually -- tho the support in Bul would still be appreciated for this turn
Alright, just didn't want to overstep the lines, you know how it is. I can probably even use it to keep up the subterfuge even with supporting you, since it would be really easy to misclick supporting Bulgaria to stay put rather than supporting Serbia to Bulgaria.
Do you think you'll move both fleets out or support one into the Aegean?
I was thinking of moving both out but I'm not 100% decided yet
Well a standard Lapanto requires that Italy move into Eastern Mediterranean, so at worst if the Austrians try to move into the Aegean you'd have both bounced. I can talk to both of them and ensure that the Austrians don't do that though, so you can bounce the Italians *and* succeed at moving into the Aegean.
That would be the ideal, if you supported into the Aegean the Italians would succeed at moving into the Eastern Med and then you'd have problems.
That's what I was hoping for yea -- though I'm also not really sure whats up with the Austrian fleet build
Yeah, the Italians are on edge about that as well. The Austrians are opaque though since they only speak in a single 10 minute period on any given day.
ain't that the truth rip lol
Hey, I think I can get the Italians on our side against Austria, are you willing to let them have Greece?
I'd be ok with it in the short term maybe, but if they get too big, itll be kinda hard for me to make any sorta progress in the med ya
Yeah, obviously it's temporary, but in the short term having them on our side helps us speed Austria's demise significantly, and their position will be absurdly weak.
Thanks for the backup in Rumania btw, didn't suspect that the Austrians would catch on before we'd gotten started. I'll likely need that support again I'm afraid.
Alright, thats fair yea; and especially with France in the west, we should be ok to take out Italy after
Yeah, so the usefulness of getting Italy Greece is significant since it gets them a build to use on Austria's second front, and puts more friendly units on our very own front line. I take it you and they have started speaking?
Yep
Good good, we'll have the Austrians on the ropes by the end of next year hopefully.
👍
BTW I'm feeding Austria a heaping helping of bullshit right now to try and get them to back up off of me so that I can be in better position to attack, just in case they try to snitch and show you the bullshit I'm telling them. I'm still playing them as if I'm their friend who wants to regain their trust and attack you.
But yeah, just to be clear before nightfall, you're going to support an Italian convoy to Greece right? Just want to make sure that things don't go wrong for want of communication.
Yea that's the plan
Just to be clear, you're also supporting Bul right
Of course, if Austria got squirrely and took Bulgaria it'd be a disaster for both of us.
I could also have Rumania support an attack on Bulgaria to cut support if he sees an attack coming from there (And even possibly take it) if you like, but that has some risks attached I think.
An attack on Serbia, sorry.
Yea, Greece just retreats to bul then, and it gets messy for me
Oh yeah they would, wouldn't they? I didn't even think of the retreat tbh. I'll support you to hold then.
If you want to get fancy, we could both tap ser, and with tun hitting Greece, Bul would be safe -- that does put rum at risk tho so it's a bit dicey
Yeah, I'd rather keep Rumania in place just in case the Austrians decide to throw all their force behind it.
Alright, that's fair, just putting the option out there
Yeah. So then, we've got Black Sea and Bulgaria supporting Rumania then? Possibly Ukraine if the Italians get Austria to tell them their plans and it turns out that they intends to throw all of their forces behind an attack there.
Depending on what the Italians can tell us, we might also need Bla to support bul, (in case Bud taps rum), but pretty much that yea
Of course, the intelligence we get defines our strategy. I just hope that the Austrians didn't go AFK for the rest of the night until the orders hit like they normally do.
Speaking of going afk, I have to go take a final exam now, but I'm pretty sure my orders are set anyways ?
Unless the Italians deliver something earth shattering, I think so yes. Good luck on your test!
Thanks :p
Are you alright if I build an army in Sevastopol?
I'd rather see it in Moscow to be honest, but if you feel like it's necessary I won't object too much
I just want to keep the Austrians guessing about what I intend to do with that. Plus, I already convinced them again that I'm on their side despite having supported you for two turns now, so it might be important to speed things up to keep up the pretense that I might think about going toward you. Keep them confused, y'know?
Alright, that's fair, just as long as they're the one getting tricked :p
Think the Italians and I are supporting you into Serbia first turn, and then me to Budapest the second, that scan as far as what you know?
That sounds like what the Italians proposed to me yea
Excellent, that'll leave the Austrians on the ropes, we can think about moving on the Italians after that depending on the situation
Sorry for the deception -- I only decided at the last minute and I also didn't want any leaks getting to Italy
I understand, but it's not like I'm gonna leak to them anyways
As long as you'll help Galicia move into Budapest I don't mind
Meaning that you'll poke Serbia to break any possible support of course.
Alright, will do, thanks for understanding
-- oof --
Yeah, sorry. For what its worth I fuckin' hate doing this whole 'betrayal' thing to people. It's the worst part of this game. >.>
Greetings, Russia!

We don't have too much to discuss early on, but I was curious on whether or not you were planning to move A Moscow - St Petersburg, where you could make a play for Norway.

And likewise, was curious whether you planned to order F Sevestapol - Black Sea, or else allow Turkey to occupy it.

It's early, but we might have room to cooperate against England or Germany in the future. Let's keep in touch. Good luck.
I'd be very interested in organizing a group effort against Britain right now. I likely won't move to Saint Petersburg the first turn in case the Germans try something but I'm definitely bouncing in the Black sea.
Understood, what's your plan then? 

You might consider Moscow to Livonia, which would still improve your situation in the north (since you could convoy to Sweden and then build in StP), while also helping to cover Warsaw.

Or else you could just commit both of your armies to the south.
I've spoken with the Germans, and a group effort against the British is likely. I'm still considering various ways to secure my position better, but I think keeping one army put in Moscow offers the best stability for the time being; If the Germans are telling the truth it will likely move to secure a spot in Finland in the second year.
I would advise against staying put. Both Ukraine and Livonia can defend 3/4 of your centers. St Petersburg  can't be attacked year 1 and the risk to Sevestapol is nominal in year 1, since even if he goes all out you bounce him out of Black Sea and he can only make an unsupported attempt from Armenia
Going to Livonia is just as good for defending against Germany but gives you more options in the North
Perhaps you're right, but an emergency is more likely to materialize in the south, in the rare case that Austria might deploy full strength against me, and the utility of remaining in Moscow in that case is much greater. I prefer the overall flexibility to the ability to deploy quickly to Scandinavia personally.
If you are concerned about the worst case on defense, I would order A Warsaw - Galicia and A Moscow - Ukraine
The absolute worst case is: 
A Berlin - Prussia or Silesia
A Smyrna - Armenia
F Ankara - Black Sea
A Vienna - Galicia
A Budapest S A Vienna - Galicia or - Rumania
Even in that nightmare scenario, you can defend all your centers with A Ukraine S Sev H (if Austria went to Rumania) or support Warsaw (if they went to Galicia with support)
I have to be careful not to provoke a worst case through concern for it. Remaining in Moscow on the first turn only marginally reduces my ability on the second turn in the north, while it retains the ability to support/ go south quickly if all goes wrong.
I'm greatly tempted to take that army to Finland in any case.
Have you talked to Italy? Even if you're not going for an Austrian offensive, they could provide a hedge against an Eastward move by Austria. You can also deny working together in the event that Austria is offended by this.
The Italians have been relatively tight lipped, they haven't spoken much more than the Austrians and the Austrians haven't spoken at all, which is concerning to say the least.
That's... Interesting. In my experience with Italy, Russia is the one country you can rely on, since they're a potential ally against either Austria or Turkey. It's strange that they haven't been recruiting your alliance
I haven't heard from Austria either. They're the one player I haven't heard from
Well that's reassuring at least. Are the Germans on board for a sea lion in your opinion? They haven't responded to my counter-proposal after they requested they get Norway. Hard to tell if they are unsatisfied or if they simply haven't had time to respond.
My conversation with Germany was very brief. All I know is that they agreed to a bounce on Burgundy, which is kind of a no brainer for them if they believe that I am going to Burgundy. Which I am, and I told them so.
Alright, they probably spoke to you in the same window of time that they did to me. Did you talk about which of you gets Belgium?
We did not. Since I am expecting to get bounced in Burgundy and am not planning to enter the Channel in year 1, I will likely have no say in the Belgian question.
I am happy to let England and Germany fight for it
Well that reinforces my wish to disallow the Germans the use of Norway, if he's likely to get Belgium then he certainly doesn't need it.
Indeed. Seems like a rather greedy fellow.
If I was less concerned about the British I'd not consider them as highly for alliance, temporary or otherwise.
Interesting sentiment! What makes you so so concerned about the British?
I've seen too many Russias undone by British armies in St. Petersburg; their advantage in navy can easily push you out of Scandinavia and your only means to create fleets in the north. Of all Russia's existential threats, they're the worst one because they're Britain's easiest target.
At the risk of harping on the same points, this is part of why I find it's important to maintain a strong presence in the north
With an army in St Petersburg (ideally), and a fleet in Sweden, not only can you pretty comfortably keep the English out of St Petersburg, you have pretty good odds of evicting them from Norway
You could even bounce them in Norway, where they would end up without a build
I get that, I just don't see Livonia as having any particular utility that Moscow doesn't have aside from the ability to convoy to Sweden or Finland; but Sweden is a position better served by a fleet anyways. Finland though, is a place built for armies, but I could get there easier via St. Petersburg. I'd like to bounce the Brits in Norway but it's imperative to keep St. Petersburg free for the 1902 build so that I can get a fleet there.
I do think that Livonia strengthens your position in the North, but it's more helpful if your target enemy is Germany than England. It allows you to convoy into Sweden in Fall 1901, build in St Petersburg, and then use A St Petersburg and A Sweden to pressure Norway while F Gulf of Bothnia goes to the Baltic
If you commit three units to the south or stay in Moscow, you'll have at most one fleet and one army in the north. If you go to St Petersburg, you'll have that number at minimum, and if you convoy to Sweden you can realistically get to two fleets and an army
I admit that the concept is warming on me. It also doesn't telegraph to the British that you don't trust them.
St Petersburg is vaguely unfriendly, but one which England may not feel pressured to take action on, especially if they are under pressure elsewhere. However, they will most likely see a move to Livonia as an anti-German or a defensive move than one against them.
True. Though the German perception of the move is a concern, as much as I don't relish them as allies, I especially don't need them as enemies.
I personally think you can probably spin it as a defensive move, but I will acknowledge that it's hard to be sure when Germany has been so tight lipped
Right, I just need more communication all around me honestly. I've only really come to a decisive conclusion with the Turks.
Yeah, other than yourself, Turkey and Italy have been the only other powers who have been really talkative
I've spoken to England and Germany enough to get the key points of alignments across, but not enough to build a relationship. Austria has been totally silent
The Italians have only talked to me briefly and the Turks and I just about talked enough to agree to stay out of each other's way and to organize a bounce in the Black Sea.
That's the same level as my discussion with Germany - to align to stay out of each other's way.
Maybe it's a time zone issue. See if they talk overnight.
Perhaps, I just hope the Austrians aren't dead-on-arrival
I mean, if they are, you are likely to be one of the beneficiaries. I should be the one saying that!
You're right, it's just a much less interesting situation if I just get to walk into Budapest and/or Vienna!
Yeah, fair enough! Although it's only marginally worse than Austria just rolling over in the face of a Juggernaut alliance, as happens far too often.
That's true; Austria really bums people out but tbh it's my favorite to play.
The Germans are really stuck on Norway for some reason.
Those cheeky sons of bitches the Germans had me so goddamn worried about getting bounced in Sweden and they didn't even go to Denmark turn one.
Sorry for not responding sooner, I got a little drunk last night. But yeah, Austria isn't the strongest country, but playing Austria is kind of exciting in a way. Seems like in this game, both you and Germany are in good terms with them, so they'll probably be alright at least for now.
Yeah, so long as they don't make any terrible mistakes
Fixating on Norway and then not even going to Denmark is really strange. Not sure they can even get to Norway any time soon. Their move to HOlland instead is a little annoying for me and England, but shouldn't be the end of the world
Yeah, I might just take Norway myself. Not any time soon mind, I need to get things relatively resolved in the south far before that.
Yeah, it's hard for England to set up a strong defensive position in Norway, and if they were in such a position they'd probably push onwards to StP. So as long as you sort things out defensively you can probably evict England later.
The English are getting rather unorthodox aren't they?
To be fair, that's partly because they successfully anticipated an unorthodox move by Germany to vacate HOlland
And you? I see you decided not to convoy to Sweden
Army wouldn't do much good up there, still want to be able to pivot away if other issues arise. Better to potentially get the fleet out of the Baltic.
If you convoy, you could get to the Baltic anyways, while having A Sweden which pressures both Denmark and Norway, as opposed to the passive A Livonia
No I mean out of the Baltic, the whole body of water, to the Skagerrak (Potentially)
Oh, that's more interesting
You would definitely need to get through England to get anywhere in that direction. Does that mean you're thinking of building in StP nc?
Indeed, it's all a future thing though, I've got no plans as yet for anything like that, gotta resolve the south a bit better first. And yeah, I'm definitely building a fleet in StP NC, can't afford the Brits deciding that I look like an easy target.
Words to live by! And I assume the second build will be an army in Warsaw? Where do you stand regarding Turkey and Austria?
Warsaw's neutral ground, as agreed with the Germans, so the second comes in Moscow.
As far as Turkey and Austria goes, I'm inconclusive. Austria doesn't talk much but then again, neither does Turkey.
I feel like if you build in Moscow and already have a unit standing by in Livonia, you could very easily end up being very passive.
Also, I just noticed Turkey's move to Armenia
Yeah, Turkey and I are having a nice talk about that, as much as can be, but they don't seem particularly determined to come after me considering they didn't touch the Black Sea. That definitely contributes to the south being "Inconclusive" as I said.
They can though, at least if they're not afraid of the Austrians. They would just build a fleet in Ankara and support themsleves in
That would be intensely concerning, but I very seriously doubt that Austria would be on board, and even if they are I don't feel as though the Italians would be interested.
That's true. I guess if you feel comfortable with Austria and Italy, it's a reasonable position
Right, barring a worst case scenario the situation in the south is stable at least.
But not especially looking to go on the offensive?
Oh I will be, just depends on which one ends up being more convincing in the next half-day.
Odd choice to build the fleet in Brest.
Without any fleets in the north I will be too vulnerable to a potential English stab
Well we're of the same mind on that front at the very least. They certainly didn't appreciate when I did that though and I warned them in advance, did you at least clear it with them?
I warned then in advance, but I'm not sure they saw it and they were unhappy either way
However, I think Germany's moves have locked England and Germany into conflict, and I'm sure he'll forget about it after some success on the German front
I wouldn't be so sure of that if I was you, the Italians tell me that the English are angrily blabbing about your plans to attack Italy with the forces you have in the south.
There are no such plans... Time to do some damage control I guess
Yeah, I figured it seemed fishy since if you planned to attack the Italians surely you'd have built another fleet in Marseilles.
You know, I hate to sound like a broken clock, but you could be in Liverpool before the British could even do anything to stop you, if you started now and were sufficiently sneaky about it.
I'll definitely take that under advisement. Of course, it would be a lot more tempting if a foreign fleet were in the Norwegian Sea or something
I'm sure the British will be sufficiently distracted with trying to keep me from being tempted to take Norway and continuing the German campaign.
Any pertinent information on the British plan that you know and/or are willing to give out by the way? Since they're being so imaginative with your plans and all.
Nothing concrete, but they've indicated to me that they feel like they are on good terms with you, which might mean that they plan to prioritize defending Belgium over defending Norway
Sorry, Holland
Excellent, they'll definitely need to do that if they intend to keep that foothold and expand it.
That does leave them vulnerable to an attack on Norway, however
They're either vulnerable to one or vulnerable to the other, they can't have a guaranteed hold on both until Fall, and that's only assuming that their positioning relative to Germany doesn't worsen significantly.
Yeah, and the other complication is that they can only go to Norwegian Sea to shore up their position .
Indeed, if they move to the Helgoland Bight or Skagerrak to try and make room for more fleets to use against Germany they risk losing Netherlands and the foothold that they had established, with no more means of gaining ground against the Germans. If they had built in London they could move to the Channel to try and strongarm Belgium, but they built an army there instead.
Of course if they felt comfortable with you, F Norway could go to Skagerrak to shore things up
If they felt comfortable I doubt they'd have bothered to build a fleet that can go directly to the Norwegian Sea rather than one that can almost immediately deploy to harass and/or support Belgium.
To be honest I"m not sure I get the A London build at all. Liverpool is better placed for convoying since you could go to Clyde if you wanted to convoy through the North Sea
I understand and appreciate that, if he intended to respect our demilitarization of the English Channel and expected me to do the same, F Edinburgh is better than F London
But why A London then?
Yeah, it's not a terribly competent build order all things considered. The fact that in one turn Liverpool can move to be convoyed through any sea zone around Britain means that it's significantly better for that, London only makes sense as a sedentary defensive move.
I'm not sure it makes sense even as a defensive move. IN the event that I stab and go to the channel, they would likely be reluctant to use A London to bounce the convoy in Wales
While it can obviously cover London itself, in that sense it is little better than Liverpool -> Yorkshire
That's very true. Even in the context of pure defense it doesn't make a great deal of sense, especially given the likelihood of an attack originating around Liverpool and Wales.
I suspect the thought process was more on the lines of initially wanting to build a fleet in London, deciding I would likely see that as an act of aggression, and changing it to an army
Perhaps? Seems like an error of not enough foresight if that's the case.
It still scans as a move to try and counter your influence or serve as a jumping off point for a surprise attack.
Even for a surprise attack, F Nth - Eng, A Liverpool - York would make more sense
Yeah, I'm not sure what they're doing, or if they even know what they're doing.
Well, I feel pretty vindicated in taking Norway.
Indeed. You should be able to hold both it and StP without much trouble now. Very aggressive attack by England
Just wish the Austrians hadn't decided to ruin literally everything.
Look on the bright side. Turkey seems firmly in your camp now. With their help Austria should be easy to manage
Not without losses unfortunately. You know it might be more easy for me to put a fleet in the Norwegian sea if you didn't put so much pressure on the Germans.
What assistance would you need from Germany? A Denmark is probably at your disposal - it can do nothing useful in the west. I've discussed with Germany a deal in which they take the North Sea but yield Belgium to me. They seemed receptive but it might just be saving face - you should approach them with a similar offer.
You can no more help them take the North Sea than they can prevent you from taking Belgium, I think that the deal needs to be a bit better than that.
And I mostly just need Germany's fleets to be free and clear to operate without possibly being harassed by French troops, because with German fleets I can free myself from Scandinavia, free an army for use in the south, and just over-all better my position on the board. It'd be pretty nice.
I think the point is less that I would help them take the North Sea, and more that they should accept the loss of Belgium as a fait accompli and focus on the north sea
Less a real alliance and more being a thought partner - I'm happy to talk to anyone, after all
Here's a proposal for you: We'll all trick the British together yes? You have their trust, you can convince them that because I'm going to use all my resources to clamp down Norway, meaning that they cannot possibly take it, and that since the Germans are obviously going to support Munich with the army in Kiel that they cannot take it. Furthermore, "you got the Germans to admit" That they will only be coming to Netherlands with the fleet in Belgium + the fleet in the Helgoland Bight.

Thus you suggest that they do a supported move to the Netherlands using F North Sea and A Ruhr to block that, while you take Belgium.

This will fool them sufficiently that the Germans can use the army in Kiel to support the fleet in Belgium into the Netherlands as well as the fleet in the Bight, ceding Belgium to you in the process, while also freeing me of one necessary support so that I can move from Sweden to Skagerrak, and the British lose two of their units this build phase. Questions?
In this scenario, you could propose something on the lines of:
A Kiel S F Belgium - Holland
A StP S F Sweden - Norway
F HEL S F Norway - Nth
This would secure Norway and Holland while also having good odds of catching England by surprise and seizing the North Sea
That would bounce in Netherlands if they decided to use the North sea to move, but I'm assuming that you would be convincing them to do the opposite?
Well, that depends on what's in it for me. I'm happy to talk, but if you want concrete action there's a few more points that need to be ironed out.
Firstly, I already have Belgium in the bag, and similarly you have secured Norway. Further action rests on the premise that we would like to help Germany at England's expense. I've yet to be convinced of this
If you secure the north sea while controlling Scandinavia, you are likely to capture the lion's share of England's centers, after all.
You misunderstand me, I want to crush the British for our mutual gain/security. Helping the Germans has nothing to do with it materially, it's about eliminating a mutually existential threat.
All I'd realistically ever want is Edinburgh
If you send even one fleet to harass the English I could break out of their cordon and we could split them in two, once they're dead I don't give a toss about the Germans, you can do with them what you will.
I think it would better serve my interests to crack Germany first, and then help you fight England. You and Germany actually have reasonably robust defensive positions against England, after all
If you like you could accelerate that process by occupying the Baltic
I can't occupy the Baltic until the English are gone. Full stop. I have had no opportunity to attack the Germans at all with the English riding my ass like they are, and won't for the foreseeable future if they keep those fleets hovering around me. I think it'd be far better for both of our peace of minds if we went for the one directly between us last.
That's reasonable, I suppose. I think at this point my inclination is to seize Belgium and see how things play out from there
I don't feel like I'm at risk of being attacked by a English-German alliance, which also means I'm not under a lot of pressure to commit to a side now
Well hopefully the British lose Netherlands, destroying two of their units would be nice; Hopefully that'd help convince you to take the side with the upper hand as well.
At least until the Germans lose their utility.
Okay, my attack on England went nowhere, probably time to pivot
You sure you didn't mean Italy?
I actually meant Germany, but my attack on Italy didn't go anywhere either
Probably pivot and attack England like you and Germany wanted
That'd be pretty cool of you.
I think in practice, that means F Picardy - ENG, and A Burgundy - Picardy
It would be really helpful if you and Germany could evict England from the north sea as possible, which should be possible with
F Nwy & F Hol S F HEL - NTH
A Kie S F Hol H
I'll relay to the Germans
It's kind of a bummer that the English went idle.
Indeed.... These things happen, but it's always frustrating
Great turn for you it seems though!
Oh definitely, I'm on fire over here.
Should we pull the trigger on a stab on Germany? England is as good as done
Heya there, just dropping in to say hello
Hey turkey. Our paths probably won’t cross for a while l, but may I suggest you attack Russia? I’ve seen way to many games where Russia is ignored and all of the sudden they have half the board. Anyways, good lucks and have fun!
Thanks! I'll definitely see what I can do, a big Russia is just as bad for me as everyone else
Sweet!
I was talking with Russia, negotiating over Norway and such. They told me they were planning on attacking you, as they thought I was there ally. The truth is, I really don't want to see russia run off with this game, so I decided to let you know.
Thanks for the heads up
Hey France 😁. I would like to suggest an alliance between the two of us, against Germany. In my opinion a England-France alliance is super powerful, especially if we can trust each other. Germany has reached out to me about an alliance to attack you, but franly I think France as a country is a much more powerful ally.To start I suggest we have the English Channel as a DMZ and coordinate and attack on Germany. Anyways good luck and have fun!
Dear England,
I completely agree that the French-English alliance can be quite powerful. Naturally, the main sticking point early on is whether we can trust each other to demilitarize the Channel.
On my end, I have little reason to go there unless I distrust you. I plan to go to Mid-Atlantic, which would allow me to move to Spain (south coast) and establish an early presence in the Mediterranean. Will also aim to get into Burgundy, where I can potentially support you into Belgium.
My suggestion is that you open with:
F Edinburgh - Norwegian Sea
F London - North Sea 
A Liverpool - Yorkshire
This guarrenteed you a build in Norway even if Russia moves A Moscow north, while potentially letting you convoy into Belgium. And you can be safe in the knowledge that either A Yorkshire or F North Sea can cover London in the event that I don't keep my word.
Let me know your thoughts. Good luck to you as well!
Sounds good!
How are your relations with Germany?
Getting into burgundy would be great. I’ll work some magic with Germany and try to get them to not move there.
Relations with Germany are not outright hostile, but it's a little tense.  Bounce in Burgundy is about what could be expected. 
Since they moved to Holland in Spring, you'll need to talk to them regarding the Belgium question. But they can probably be brought around. I'll move to Burgundy again, but probably expecting another bounce
So... the thing is, their going to have to choose between Belgium and Denmark. If I let germany have Belgium, I could get Denmark, and have full control of scandinavia by 1902, from where I could launch a full-fledged russia attack
I'm surprised Germany is on board with this
It means allowing you to border Kiel. But if they're sincere, and not just offering it because it would be easier for them to capture Denmark next year than Belgium
Then it could set you up well. I assume you are convoying into Denmark then?
Well... germany isn't on board with this... yet. I messaged them but they havn't responded yet
Well, it certainly strengthens our alliance a lot if you are able to occupy Denmark. We would be far better placed to partition Germany, and it would be easier to check Russian expansion
So if you're comfortable with it, I suggest we just go ahead. Even if Germany causes problems, the two of us should be able to handle them.
Well... if Germany moves into Denmark, it sucks for me.
The last I spoke to Germany, they seemed interested in Belgium, but I'm not sure they had fully thought through the fact that taking Belgium would mean giving up on either Denmark or Holland
It's obviously not ideal, but a bounce in Denmark would still be manageable - you still get one build in Norway, and Germany would also be limited to one build in that scenario
I’ll wait and see what Germany messages me back
Deadline is coming up. Suggest you submit draft orders and revise them if/when Germany gets back
Germany just said their not willing to give up on denmakr
Oh... Have they offered you Belgium in exchange?
I don't think it's going to happen. I'm not going to move to denmark.
Also germany said you reached out to them about turning on me?
I'm not sure if Germany is flat out lying, or if they're misunderstanding what I told them
I told them that I'd be willing to let them have Belgium, which they then (unprompted) took to mean I was offering them Belgian in exchange for an alliance against you. However, what I meant was that it was just acknowledging facts. I couldn't stop them from taking Belgium even if I wanted to.
I think it's already pretty clear that I trust you more than I trust Germany, just from the fact that I agreed to demilitarize the English Channel while we had an arranged bounce in Burgundy
Ok... I believe you. Also, I don't think germany is the most seasoned diplomacy player... he told me he wanted to have an alliance with me, but that I HAD to give him belgium, holland, and denmark in return
Yeah, Germany seems like a rather greedy player
Didn’t get into Denmark, but Holland is very nice as well
Indeed, congrats!
What's your plans for build? I was thinking of building A Marseilles to support myself into Burgundy and advance against Germany
And then couple that with F Brest, which could go to Picardy to contest Belgium
Also you can probably guess just based on your current situation, but Germany as approached me about an alliance against you
Right. Hopefully you stick with the more competent player 😉
Honestly, I figured I should do my due diligence and consider it, but I can't figure out how a France-German alliance would even work in this situation. It's not as if he could support me into Belgium
U could tell him yes and then use that to stab
I might do that, but he's in a tight defensive enough position as is
Which is why you would do that...
Im thinking a build in london and a fleet in edinburg
As in, army in London and fleet in Edinburgh?
yea
Makes sense!
Frankly, I don't like your fleet in Bre. An army could have contested Belgium as well.
If you move it to the english channel... I'm going to take that as on obvious sign of aggression, and cover London. If you move it to picardy, were all good.
Lol both russia and Italy reached out to me asking if you had accidentally switched those builds... I agree with them, they do seem pretty strange
Strange or not, I'm fairly sure I told you earlier that I was thinking of building a fleet and Brest and didn't get any objections
But at any rate, I can promise you that it will be going to Picardy rather than to the Channel. If it does go to the Channel, you should see that as an act of aggression on my part
So, I've heard that you told Italy I'm planning to attack them with the fleet in Spain?
Never said that...
Interesting. Well, anyways that's not important. I'd like to apologise again for building the fleet in Brest without proper consultation - I assumed that you saw the message and were okay with it
I will move to Picardy and continue our demilitarization of the English Channel. Hopefully we can put this behind us and focus on Germany
Nice
I should also be able to get into Burgundy, which would strengthen our position facing Belgiim
Good.
Where do you stand regarding Russia by the way?
I’m good with them, just trying to talk to other countries to try to keep a balance of power over there in the south. Turkey is basically free centers, and Russia is looking a little worrying.
Turkey's move to Armenia should be a bit reassuring to you, since it puts pressure on Russia not to focus too much in the north
But it's a little... Half-hearted?
Yes. Like the first turn...
One other thing to check - would you be comfortable with me sending F Spain to Mid Atlantic in order to get A Portugal out?
Plan is to return to Spain afterwards
Go ahead, but i personally think you should attack italy.
Attacking Germany is the priority in my mind, especially since A Marseilles is needed on that front
Can consider how best to attack Italy if/when Germany is dealt with
On that note - we now have a very messy map. Let me put some thoughts on how to proceed
Okay, retaking Norway is probably a lost cause, given that Russia tends to be a conservative player, and such a player will probably be very tempted to just do: 
F Sweden & A StP S F Nwy H
I will do A Burgundy S F PIcardy - Belgium, which will cut support
F Nth S A Ruhr - Holland should then be able to hold Holland
Germany will then have a disband, , probably in Kiel, letting you rotate around into Ska and take Denmark
Ok, I'm here now
It's late at night for me, so I might not stay up too long, but what do you think of the suggestion?
I seriously doubt I can get Norway back. My moves last turn were... well... risky. I asked if there was anything I could do for them to get Norway back, but I seriously doubt it. Belgium is guaranteed for you. The thing is, I'm not sure I can get Holland. Germany probably anticipates you taking Belgium, and will move into Holland with Belgium, and with support, their going to get it.
Which means I'm at 3 centers, and won't have a chance of getting denmark.
Thinking out loud here - if we assume Germany will anticipate that I attack Belgium and order A Kiel & F HEL S F Bel - Hol
Munich would be vulnerable
Would you be comfortable with F NTH S F Pic - Bel, A Ruh S A Bur - Mun? 

From there, I can support you into Kiel and/or Holland
I'm hearing you ask me to support you twice this turn. If I do this I will almost undoubtedly lose two centers. I will be at 3. You will be at 7.
it's simply not fair. I support you into Belgium, you support me into Munich
It's always worth asking. The complication is that I think Munich is a really critical supply center for France, but that being the case I can support you in for now and trade it for another supply center down the line.
So yeah, A Burgundy can support you from Ruhr into munich, while F NTH supports Picardy - Belgium
Are we agreed?
Just so you know, it's like 2am in my time zone, so if I don't hear back before I go to bed I'm just going to support myself into Belgium. Don't want to risk losing a build to miscommunication, so would just take the guaranteed option in that case
Ok, I'd like to work things out
Let's do that. How much longer are you here?
I'll probably go to bed after we finish this conversation
Ok. I was thinking... do you want to have Munich and I get Belgium? May require a bit of trust, but I am full in for this alliance. Also Munich is better for you to have then me
I actually thought about that, but it's considerably riskier. A Ruhr is decently likely to have its support cut, while it's impossible for that to happen to A Munich
Ok, but I seriously doubt Ruhr will have it's support cut.
Odds are low, but it's possible if Germany things you want to backfill to NTH
But yeah, I'm comfortable with betting that Germany won't do that
And also with trusting that your support will materialize
So that would suggest F Picardy S F NTH - Bel, A Bur - Mun?
So... which option? I think we can bet that germany won't do that. I think it is definitely the better move. It's just up to how much you trust me. Again, I'm ready to go all the way with this alliance. I think I might diplomatically have Russia in the bag, and be able to Norway back, from which I could get Stp. With me going for russia, and maybe eventually italy, I think we can get a two way win.
With Munich under my control, attacking Italy or even Austria becomes much more feasible - we would definitely be on track for a two way win, especially with the eastern triangle going nowhere
Provided you agree, I'm prepared to commit to:
 A Ruhr S A Bur - Mun
 F Pic S F NTH - Bel
Just to check though - what are you possibly offering Russia that makes them voluntarily return Norway?
That sounds good.
I'm offering them support into Denmark
For this fall? Or next year?
They don't want to do it yet. i do. Were still working it out
You should also explore the option of them supporting you into Denmark, as "compensation" for taking Norway
lol. They are a tough diplomat, their never agreeing to that
Haha it's only marginally worse than giving up Norway
Ok, sounds good. SLeep well
I put in the order!
Same🥳
So, this is what I get for trying to put in orders at 2am... Complete misorder
What do you mean?
I put in A Burgundy - Ruhr instead of to Munich
That's why I failed to capture Munich
It didn’t matter, they supported Munich
Oh, I actually missed that somehow. I checked the orders early in the morning as well...
Happens to all of us. Hey more sleep 😴
Okay, we're actually still in okay shape
Germany will need to disband, but they need all their current units to make a defensive line
So there will be a gap somewhere - let's see where in the morning
Yeah
Germany doesn’t have to disband
Wow, I am really not on top of my game right now. 
Okay, aassume that we have Belgium and North attacking Holland, and Burgundy attacking Munich. Kiel can support one of them to hold, which would succeed. This then turns into a guessing game.
Germany can beat the odds by having Russia do F Nwy - NTH to cut support, coupled with A Kiel S A Mun H, but Russia takes on considerable risk in doing so
The real wild card is that if Italy or Austria lets me through into Tyrolia, we can hit Munich from the south
I'll try to lobby for that, while we play the odds in the north
Sounds good. Russia... I seriously doubt they are going to help germany
Yeah, let's see. I don't think they're big fans of you either.

In terms of actual moves, could your A Ruhr provide support for me to hit Ruhr again?
Heya there
Thoughts on an information sharing pact with respect to Italy?
We don't have to attack them right away, but neither of us benefits if they get too big ya
Agreed. Obviously England and Germany are more immediate concerns for me (as are Austria and Russia for you). But neither of us wants to see Italy expand too far, and it would be of mutual benefit to share any information that we hear about them.
On a related note, have you heard from Russia or Austria? I'm curious to see if Russia plans to send A Moscow north or south.
I don't really have a good read on Russia to be honest
Unless you have a sea lion going with him tho, I doubt he'd go north
Austria is telling me they're going for Russia, but that's what every Austria tells turkey lol
You hear anything on your end about England / Germany?
Haven't heard from Germany
England told me that Germany reached out to him about an alliance but he would rather ally with me. I'm very confident in the first part, the second remains to be seen.
Italy is saying that a French-Italy war is a waste of time for both us, which is true but may not be good news for Turkey unless you want to ally with them against Austria
Haven't heard anything from Austria or Russia either.
Hm thanks for the advice, I'll keep an eye out for the Lepanto then
Update on Italy - they just told me that they don't feel it wise to get into an early fight with Austria. Assuming that they've been telling me the truth (a big if) that makes the Lepanto highly likely
I guess it's too much to hope for that they just sit on their hands for a few years lol
Indeed... Hard to get a read on a group that is organized in such an unusual way, but it feels like it's mostly experienced players here
Seems to be, yea
All the moves are pointing to a pretty stock standard Lepanto here in the East, so if you want to swing your fleet down into the med, that'd be appreciated on my end, and you should have a good shot at making progress if Italy commits any further this way
Yeah, that's the plan. Will move F MAO - Spa sc, which should give me some presence in the Med and put a little bit of pressure on Italy.
How is your relationship with Russia? Are you planning to allow them into Rumania?
I'm thinking I'll try to contest just so they can't get a fleet into bla. I haven't been hearing too much from my neighbors so I'm kinda nervous 😅
Really? Russia has been pretty talkative with me, actually. Haven't heard much from Austria though
Hear anything interesting ?
Russia was really stressed about whether Germany would bounce them in Denmark, and then Germany opened to Netherlands
In general they strike me as a fairly cautious, defensive player
Mm, thanks
If you want to tap Tyr, I can crash into Ion
I don't have the firepower to get anywhere after tapping Tyr
Mm I see
Well, just putting the option out there I guess
you have anything else in mind?
I guess I'd also be happy to support you into getting Tun after I'm in ion if you'd be interested in that?
That would be interesting, but I think I want the position with England to improve before committing to anything
Greetings!

I was just wondering what your aims were regarding territory in the area? May I suggest that we keep Tyr as a DMZ for the time being?
Hello Italy, I can agree to those terms.
Can I ask whether you plan to ally with Italy or France?
I'd like to think I'm already allied with Italy 😅
Haha good one. I think I meant France or Austria?
Am currently speaking to both but haven't really moved towards either as of yet.

What are your plans vis a vis alliances and expansion?
In discussions about what is off limits for the first turn with Russia.
Still waiting to hear from or waiting to see first moves of other neighbors.
That's fair, good to be cautious
Hey Italy, I’d like to make sure Tyr remains as DMZ from both you and Austria so I’m going to leave an Army in Mun.
Have you and Austria considered a lepanto?
I've raised the idea with him, just waiting to hear back
I’ve heard that France is moving Pie - Mar. I wanted to share that with you since I am interested in you headed for Turkey.
Okay, thanks for that
Ven-Pie and then support me in to Mar? I’d appreciate the help and could return the favor later.
Sounds good, consider it done
Good to hear. Are you moving in on Turkey too? They kinda became a sitting duck after missing last turn.
That's the plan
In return for my help in taking down France, could you support me into Mar instead? I'll then help you mop up from there
I’m not sure I could this year based on what’s going on on the other side of Switzerland. But if all goes well we can revisit this in the Fall.
So are you not bothering with Mar this turn? Or are you saying that you want it and then I could take it in the fall? 

Not entirely sure what you're proposing
Sorry for being unclear. I would like to have one of us take it in the fall. But my priority with my army in Bur is first to the northern areas. So if I need to use that army not in Mar in the fall then we can’t take Mar. So if you don’t want to move to Pie yet because of my uncertainty that’s ok. Does that make sense?
Ah, that's fair. No worries
Can you support me into Mar? If I support you they’ll just cut my support from Paris.
Is England not your ally?
Par is France. So that’s the issue not England.
No, I understand that. It's just that England is poised to take Bre and so I imagine France will be more interested in supporting Bre than they are with disrupting you. As such, I don't see it as much of a risk, if you were to support me into Mar
I'll support you into Mar, but I want Spain and Portugal if that's alright?
Deal. Can you get a fleet over there?
Not this turn, but will do next year after taking out Turkey
Perfect. Good luck wrapping up with Turkey.
Thanks for the support. I didn’t anticipate France supporting Mar.
If England turns on me after France, I’d appreciate it if you and I could work together. You could end up with Mar, Spa, and Por.
That sounds good to me, we should be able to take him down together should it come to it
France is threatening to give all of his centres to England if I don't 'back off immediately'
That’s what I’m suspecting is about to happen to me too. Just asked France for an explanation. I wonder if it’s a ploy by France to game us against each other.
I’ve offered France the opportunity to rebuild and work against England in case they reach out to you.
I’d like to get England around Spain and closer to going after you next so their out of position.
Okay, sounds good. Will be interesting to hear their response
I’m open to other ideas if you have them. But if they surrender to England I think we’re done for.
I completely agree there, we can't have England taking all of their CPs
Good. And it doesn’t look like you’ll be able to pick any centers up from Turkey unless Austria or Russia is working with you. Can you start moving you fleets back into the West Med? They could come in handy very soon.
Aye, they'll both be heading back asap
France is out. They’re going to hand their centers over to England and think they’re going to be left with one.
I don’t think we can take out England if this happens. Want to ensure we wipe France off the board first?
Damn.

Yeah, can do. Hopefully if we can secure a few points we'll stand a chance of fighting off england
Agreed but I don’t think this is the turn to do it anymore. Thoughts?
Not sure what you mean there
Oh sorry. The turn to make the stab on England.
Ah, right. Yes, I agree
Nice job getting Mar. Are you planning on pushing toward Spain?
Been talking to France to see if he can help to push England out of the med

Have you had any contact with England?
A little, just talking about my front with Russia. I mean you could take WES. And then you’d have access to Spain and Portugal.
Am planning on taking it this turn

Am mainly using France as a diversion for England
Thanks. Please let me know if you find out that France wants to move toward any of my centers.
I will do.

I'm only using him as a means to an end so hopefully he shouldn't pose that sort of threat for much longer

Who are you planning on going after next, may I ask?
Taking back Mun first hopefully. And then need to see where loyalties lie between Russia and Austria. I still am in too awkward of a position to move on England that wouldn’t let both of them destroy me.
That's fair

Good luck with Mun

Do let me know should you need any help with anything in the future
Greetings!

I was just wondering what your aims were regarding territory in the area? May I suggest that we keep Tyr as a DMZ for the time being?
Hi there, Italy!  In my experience, Austria and Italy fighting anytime before 1904 or so ends one way: they are both eliminated.  So keeping a DMZ is good (ideally find a way to keep all four of TRL, ADR, TRI and VEN as a DMZ) but even better would be a joint goal we can work together on.  Typically as Austria my thoughts are to keep Russia and Turkey from allying, and pick one side against the other.  If you wanted to go after Turkey with me, that could work, but if you wanted to go after France (with either English or German help), I could go after Russia with Turkish help.  In general, I guess I’m saying I’m willing to go almost any sensible way that goes along with an alliance which I can grow to trust 🙂
I was definitely thinking of going after France, as I find they can quickly spiral out of control if uncontested.

Might be best if you go after Turkey with Russia and I'll focus my attention West
Awesome.  I reached out to Russia and will let you know how that turns out. You have any indications that you’ll get any help against France? It can be a slow and annoying slog if you go 1:1 against them...
England seems to be interested, so hopefully we can nip France in the bud ASAP
So how did we want to move in Spring to set us both up to feel safe and not tightly entangled in each other’s business?  Any particular moves you have in mind, given what you’ve been hearing?
Do you want to move against Turkey quickly? If so, I can suggest a strategy for us to take him out
I’d be happy to go after Turkey - once they control Aeg + Bla, they are nearly impossible to ferret out of that corner.  But if you’re going after France with English help, nothing I do (even with Russian help) will go *fast* against Turkey unless the Turk just totally doesn’t know what they’re doing. They’ll go down, just not super fast - that’s just how it goes against the corner pocket powers...
This article has an effective strategy for neutralising Turkey but we'd need to work very closely together. What do you think?

http://www.diplomacy-archive.com/resources/strategy/articles/lepanto.htm
The Lepanto works well against Turkey, but does require our combined full attention: it would mean you decide to drop your idea of going after France, because you’d need both your first fleet and the one you build in Winter to be used in the east.  If you’re interested in going easy with me instead of taking on France, then sure: I’ll go to Alb in spring, and Gre in fall which sets us up for a supported attack on Aeg in spring 02.
I appreciate your being true to your word and leaving Trl open. I trusted you and moved away from our mutual border.  I expect that France will run away from Pie now that they’re under attack, but if you want to follow Ven-Pie, we would be in an easy position to have both Ven, Trl, Adr, and Tri all open as a safe DMZ, and could agree not to build in Tri or Ven without prior agreement.  Let’s us work as safely together as any alliance could be while we go after Turkey without leaving many units home “wasted” just guarding against each other.
Of course, if I end up bouncing in Gal again I may have to build another army in Tri, so if you want to leave Ven where it is and watch what France does for now, that’s cool too!
Those terms sounds most agreeable. I think it's definitely in our interest to work closely together
For this turn, I will stay in Venice just to see if France pulls back. Just letting you know for full disclosure
I totally understand. I appreciate the transparency: Adr + Trl still DMZ, but I understand your needing to wait in Ven to see what France does.  Do you feel you'll have to take Tunis with the fleet, or can we still do the Lepanto?  Taking it with F Ion-Tun slows us down by a full turn in our eastward movements, but if that's what needs to happen, so be it!
I'm going to convoy into Tunis so as not to move the fleet
excellent, that'll set us up for a convoy to either Syria as a sneak attack, or right into Constantinople if I can get into Bulgaria to support it, depending on which way the Turk tries to defend.
Ideal. Reckon we'll have him out soon enough
Oh just for full disclosure on my part: I may drop Vie-Ven to cover that, since it’s a fall turn, and well “trust but verify” is always sensible, right? 🙂
I totally understand, go for it
I'll build in Vie and Bud, and leave Trieste open to help enforce our DMZ.  It looks like France won't be able to build any fleets, so I guess we'll see how long they can keep England and Germany from eating them up, eh?  You may want to consider using your "rearguard army" in Venice in France: either you can offer to help kill France (in exchange for a supply center: Mar) or prop them up (to slow down the EG alliance from progressing too fast), by using A Pie S Mar, which France will need once there's a german army in Gas.  Just some thoughts.
I'm setting up the Convoy this turn. Are you able to shift south-east to assist in attacking Turkey?
Yep - I'm taking Bul (with Russian help) this next turn, and in the fall, can both tap Con to cut any supports it may give, as well as move Gre-Aeg to help support your attacks on Smy.  Does that work for you?
Sounds good. I'm helping to take down France as well
cool.  Be tough about it: if they ask for your help, since you can't easily go over there with strength (until you've completed the convoy), demand they get  you into Mar as the first step, and from there you'll support the rest of their attacks.  If they say no, you can always say, "if I'm not getting anything out of it, I may as well *support France*, instead of supporting their demise, you know?" 🙂
Actually now that I look at the board more closely- since Turkey built an army, they are basically permanently no threat. If you want to change direction and focus your attention to focus on France, I wouldn’t see it as a betrayal - my advance on Turkey would go slower, but it would still work, as two fleets aren’t necessary to force advancement into Aeg. Either way: if you want to keep going east, I’ll help you into Smy if you’ll help me into Con after!
I think we'll do the Smy and Con, I need me some supply centres
sounds like a plan!
As you imagine, I’m heading to Aeg now, to help speed up the dismantling of the Turkey carcass :). What’s up in France?  Germany going to let you have Mar, or are you going to slow down their advance so we can resolve the east before they get done in the west?
He wants me to support him into Mar as he's worried they'll cut his supplies from Paris
Makes sense - Germany has some guessing games in there...
I’d normally build A Vie, but England has 4 fleets ready to pour around Gibraltar into the Med (they’ll say it’s to kill France, but what do they do after taking Spain an Portugal?) and even after we get you this build from Smy, we’ll only have 4 combined between the two of us.  If you want me to build a fleet I can, but if I don’t hear from you I’ll assume A Vie.
You can build the army if you want, hopefully, we'll be able to take enough ground to build up our Navy soon enough
I’m fine either way, just trying to pick which way covers the most options. Vie protects from Germany, but they’re still busy and Russia can help hold them off too.  A fleet makes sure England is matched but like you’re saying, we can hopefully do that next year too.
Germany has just told me that he's offered France protection if he goes against England
oh wow, that would be very helpful!  I'll talk to him to encourage that.  England could be a huge threat with all those fleets if nobody goes against them.
I'm going to bring my fleets back over as you've got Turkey pretty much sorted now with Russia
Makes sense.  You going to try and help France and Germany against England?  Or attack France while Germany protects them?  Or just cover to make sure England does't swing too fast into the Med?
Mainly cover against Eng
Yeah good plan.  4 fleets right there is a lot.
France is dipping out and giving his points to England. Hopefully Germany and I can take a few and maybe stand a chance of taking the fight to England
makes sense!  it'll be a race to get there in time.
It looks like Germany and England are coming east already.  I'm set up to push into Munich, once you can get around to Marseille and Burgundy.  I think I need to build a Fleet this year, because we otherwise don't have enough fleets to hold England back, even if Russia and I can make headway on the land.  Or are you trying to help France survive now?  Should I negotiate with them to offer support of Bur-Mun?  I think we need to get you a build from Marseille sooner rather than later, right?
I've negotiated with France so that for now, he's going to let me into Mar if I support him into Spain for now

If he can help us kick Britain out of the med then I'm willing to do that for him now

You should probably ask him about Bur-Mun, as I reckon he'll want the help
Oh I just realized Germany is getting a build, so it will probably be an army in Kiel, which will keep me from being able to get Bur-Mun to succeed.  But as long as I keep attacking Mun with support, it'll keep the German with all three units locked in place for now, which will hopefully help you in France.
Fantastic
We are going to need one of my fleets to move into Ion, because you don't want to have to waste F Tys S Tun against two english fleets forever.  Have they talked to you at all?  Seems like their actions speak louder than words...
I must say that, as much I don't want to think it, you do seem to be converging to make a move against me
If I wanted to attack you, I could indeed peel you apart right now, and there's not much you could do about it.  If I totally stay away from you, England pushes you right back to the borders of your homeland, and probably overcomes your defenses, given the location of the units right now.  Where would I be if that happened?  Do you think you have some tactics which would hold them off without any help from me?  If you have a plan that looks solid, I'm all ears.  I built the fleet, as I mentioned, specifically because England otherwise had us outgunned at sea, and clearly wasn't planning on fighting Germany.
That's what I wanted to hear, I believe you.

You can move that fleet into the Ioanian, of course.

My only communication with England so far has been them trying to bargain with me to let them move on to take you out. So far I have not responded but, should we see an opportunity, I could always see how far a lie could get me
I doubt England will believe either of us... 😦
Probably not, but could be worth a shot at some point
True.  Maybe try and see what they want?
See, I told you that you could trust me.  Nice defensive work, btw!  England can't hold Tunis long, once you pull a fleet out into Tys, we can take it back.
My army in Pie will be supporting Mar!  Unless we're using Mar-Bur to cut the support Bur can give to Mun, in which case Pie can support Gol-Mar as a beleagured garrison to make sure you hold onto it.
I think I'll be holding in Mar this turn, want to shore up the med before attempting to move on again
If you're holding, you can count on Pie to support it to hold, so you can focus your fleets on naval manouevers.  Speaking of which, we should talk tactics to keep the strongest position.  And you're building a fleet, right?
Aye, I think a fleet would be the most useful for fighting England.
GoL s Wes, Wes S Ion-Tun, Rom-Tys, Pie S Mar, Mar S Spa, and we ask France to do Spa S Wes?  Most likely, England orders NAf S Tun so as not to lose that, but then we hold position while Rom-Tys tightens the noose.  If on the other hand they give up on Tunis in Spring, by doing NAf and MAO s Tun-Wes, it does explode your fleet, but then we have Tys and Tun and you can rebuild the fleet and I can also build one if needed.  What do you think?
That sounds agreeable to me. Just as a note though, will I be getting Tun back at some point in your plan?
I most likely won't get in - if I were England, I'd use NAf to support Tun this season.  In which case Tys and Ion can work together to attack it next season.  But if I do get in, we get you that one back or Spain (if we can get France into Portugal at some point), whichever is easiest to juggle around.  If you ended up with *both* Spain and got Tunis back, am I just using three of my units out of the goodness of my heart?  ;P  - but seriously, priority one is push England out of the Med, priority two is to crack the E/G defense line, and beyond that, we just make sure to divide spoils fairly, and in a defensible way (no point in me owning Portugal, as how could I defend that?)
That's fair, we should have this if we play our cards right
Yep, there are some guessing games, but I think we have the better position now.
So, we can get you Tunis this season, guaranteed: Wes-NAf, Ion S Tys-Tun, Tys-Tun.  But in exchange, can you also help me and Russia in Germany, by doing Mar-Bur to cut their support?
We could protect Mar by doing Pie S Lyo-Mar, to give it a beleagured garrison
I can definitely do Mar-Bur. The rest of it sounds good
Ugh. Sorry about that.  I just got worried everybody was getting builds and I wasn’t, but wanted to maintain the great position pushing England back.  I shouldn’t have taken Venice without asking.
Hello Russia!
Greetings Italy! 

What are your strats for the first year? Want to coordinate a move against Turkey?
I think a move against Turkey would be wise
Sounds good. What do you propose?
I'll let you know in due course, got a few things on the go
Hey looks like were headed for a party on turkish lands! How should we coordinate this?
I'll be landing in Syria either in this fall or next spring. Once there, if you move Sev-Arm, we can support eachother with our fleets as well and push westwards
Sounds great, how much have you negotiated with Austria? I'm just trying to picture how the three of us best carve up tukey...
We haven't properly discussed how best to carve it up yet. It's a shame we can't make group press in this as that would make it a damn sight easier 😅
Ha yeah no kidding. Group chats would make this game very interesting
What's your movement to the east captain Lepanto? Are you trying to gte that army on turkish lands again or are you just trying to break Smy?
I'm going to be moving away this turn so that I can focus my attention West. Turkey is up to you and Austria
Trying to get some of France before it’s all taken by E/G?
Mainly to try and curtail Eng a bit as they're growing very strong
Ah prob a good call
Looks like you got Mar locked up this year! Have any intel on england?
Not really, they're being quiet on the comms

Just need to try and push them out of the med
Dam Britain really got into the Med and North africa. Can you reclaim Tunis this turn?
That's the plan 😅
Hey Italy
Hi England, how goes it?

May I ask if you have any plans regarding France, as they can quite often quickly become the strongest nation if allowed to roam free.
Great. I’m about to send the Beatles (A Yor) to Norway. Do you have any inkling of if you’re going west, east, or Lepanto? I promise not to share with France or Germany.
Sorry A Liv = the Beatles
I'll probably grab Tunisia ASAP and then see what responses I get from everyone else.
Are you planning on convoying though Ion or TyrS? Austria claims you’re hitting France, and I’m curious if he’s bluffing or if you are lying to him.
I think it's a good idea if we were to go against France together but I won't be doing it alone, and nothing for at least a turn or two to see where the land lies
It’s always good to see if a juggernaut forms.
Aye. France is usually in the strongest position to do that which is why we need to be prepared to move against him should it come to that
Sorry, I meant the capital J Juggernaut (i.e. Russia and Turkey alliance).

There’s an opening set of moves that allow you to guard against a hostile Austria, set yourself up for Tunisia, and set you up to take Smyrna in Turkey: the Lepanto.


http://uk.diplom.org/pouch/Zine/S1998M/Birsan/Lepanto.html
http://www.diplomacy-archive.com/resources/strategy/articles/lepanto.htm
Oh, aye? I'll take a gander thanks
I can’t believe turkey built A Smy. That’s good luck for you.
Was an interesting choice 😅
You’re about to lose centers to Austria. If you leave France alone, I won’t harass A Tunisia, which will allow you to convoy an army back home.
Austria is about to stomp on you. Look at his build up.
And what would you suggest I do? Fall back so that you can come in?
You can only fight one side at a time and I’m fighting France right now.
I suggest teaming up with Russia
Greetings!

I was just wondering what your aims were regarding territory in the area?
For the time being my goal is to secure the territories around the Black Sea. The events that take place during this time will determine my goals afterwards.
That's fair enough. Do let me know if you ever need a hand with anything... Or anyone
I will be sure to let you know if I need your help
Greetings!

I was just wondering what your aims were regarding territory in the area? May I suggest that we keep Pie as a DMZ for the time being?
Sure, could we expand that DMZ all the way to Naf?
Aye, that works
So what is happening in the east?
Haven't really made plans with any of them yet. Going to see the opening moves
I will retreat from pie. England and Russia told me you were going west. They made me break our dmz deal while england moved against me
As long as you move out this turn I'll let you off. I can understand why you did it but at least now you know who you can trust

Well

Ish
England obviously wanted troubles kn my South
I am will surrender all my centers to england if you do not back off immediately
Days passed and someone disrespected my offer. I won't defend Marseille so you can use your fleet to support me in Spain. I think you would like to see England out of the Mediterranean. I am willing to help you defend Mediterranean as long as I can in order to survive at least.
What army/fleet do you want supporting into Spain? I can agree to these terms
Could you use Gol to support spain holding?
Sure, consider it done
You can have Marseille
Cheers
I am supporting Tys to Wes. Can you use Mar to support spain hold?
Aye, that's locked in now. I'm using Tun to hopefully disrupt Naf as well
Do you reckon you could do Spa S Wes?
I could
Hi there Germany!  We can both agree that one of us dying early doesn’t bode well for the other, right?  Want to establish a “intelligence sharing pact” to help make sure some early stability for each other means we can both survive into the mid-game where perhaps we can actually coordinate?
Yes I’d like that. Currently England has suggested they would like to be my ally and Italy wants Tyr to remain empty.
So if Italy is asking *both* of us to leave TRL empty, you know what that probably means? :/
What information do you have?
No proof, just that Italy asked for a DMZ in TRL, but England says they haven’t discussed going after France together, which makes me think Italy is trying to keep TRL open so they can walk in there themselves.  Not sure though.  Also heard Russia is probably moving south as usual (but to be used with me against Turkey, or against me with Turkey? Only time will tell!)
Any word from France?
France has had limited communication trying to get me to not be aggressive toward them. I will plan to leave an army in Mun to dissuade Italy from going to Tyr. I’ll let them know that if they more there I’ll use that army to work with you against them.
Italy seems committed to avoiding Tyr. Do you have any interest in working with them against Turkey?
Perhaps Italy is truly willing to avoid Trl.  It’s always hard to tell before the first moves come out.  I’m happy to work worth them if they aim towards Turkey instead of towards me.
I’ll be in Mun to back you up if they are lying to us. Any chance of you being interested in convincing Italy to lepanto?
If you want to move Mun, you can always move it back there in the Fall in case Italy lied, so if I were you I’d make better use of it: I like Mun-Ruh in Spring 01: you have a say in who gets Bel, or you can guarantee Hol, and you’re still right next to Mun in case Italy is in TRL or France goes to Bur.
I’m negotiating with Italy about working with them in the east, yes, and it hinges on us both agreeing to leave Trl empty, yes
I get there might be better uses. And I might do that if you come to a good agreement with Italy for the east and feel confident in them. It’s imperative to me that you stay alive or I’ll probably get eaten by the east. So let me know how talks with them go and I may change orders.
So it looks like Italy was trustworthy, England is cutthroat, and France is... weird?  You going to work with England against France, or the other way around?
I can’t figure France out. I think they must be very new to the game. They agreed to dmz EC though as far as I know so England is going straight for them.
France told me you had EC as dmz and I wasn’t openly aggressive so I’ll pretend like I’m going to side with them to get their orders.
Ok, all I hear from France is they're sending Pie-Mar, which is probably the truth.  What are you thoughts on Russia?  Going to let them have Swe (for a likely second build) or hold them smaller in the north for now?  I can probably be fine either way, but would like to have some idea which to plan for...
France wants me to join them against Italy. I want Italy to go east but toward Turkey. Definitely not toward you since you cover my weak spots from Russia and Turkey.
I think I’ll bounce Russia in Sweden. Don’t see a reason not to and that’ll hold off a build for them. I haven’t heard much from them, very direct about answering only what I am asking them.
Where did you hear about France’s move?
France told me directly that they were moving back away from Venice.  I don't see any reason why they'd lie to me about that, since I'm the one who could help them right now if they asked (and if I wanted to, which I don't, but they didn't even ask).
Italy *is* most likely going east against the Turk, as long as France is off their back, and I don't attack them (I don't intend to attack Italy, that's crazy for Austria in the early game).
Right. So do you know if Italy is aware of France pulling back?
Italy asked me if it was ok if they hung around in Venice for now, to watch and see if France really did pull away.  I told them of course it was ok, and that I appreciated them letting me know they'd still be sitting right next to Trieste.  So I think Italy and I are at least being pretty up front about what we're doing.  I don't think Italy knows if they can trust France after France just walked into Piedmont, and will prefer to see how it shakes out.
Good to hear. I’d like it if us central powers could remain open. I plan to move out of Mun but am not sure where yet as France and England are talking to me about different options.
Cool.  I don't see how France has much to offer you at this point (support into Belgium, I guess?), but I can see the appeal of Burgundy - France kinda collapses if they lose that line, but once they've picked up builds from Spain + Portugal, it gets wayyyy harder.
Absolutely. They can’t get both builds in Iberia that soon because of their current locations. But I also don’t want England to stab me in the process either.
England seems like an aggressive player, but a good one, and IMO, a good player in England’s position has far more to gain by a concerted attack *with* you against France than just stabbing you with no clear help.  France tells me they’re going Pie back to Mar, so consider that in your planning if it’s helpful.
I appreciate the help. I’ll consider that.
Let me know what you want to do after builds. I think if you’re not busy with Turkey we could start thinking about Russia.
Are you thinking about opening up a two front war, in France *and* Russia?  That has ... historically not gone well for Germany!
No not in the near future, I’ve seen how it plays out. Just like to get ideas of what you’re thinking earlier rather than later.
Did Turkey hold for all of their units? Or just not submit orders? This is my first time playing on backstabbr.
Turkey says they messed up the "submit" button somehow (it's easy to do, actually - very frustrating when you don't verify that they're really submitted), so held by accident.  But it basically means they're kinda toast at this point - I'll probably go with Russia and Italy against them at least for a short time.
That’s too bad. Leaves them a sitting duck.
However, once you've subdued France a bit, and I've shrunk Turkey down to a manageable size, I think *then* is the right time to focus our combine attention on Russia.  In the meantime, you and England should definitely make sure to keep them contained in the north.
Speaking of England, one thing annoying about E/G alliances is that you really only have this one chance to build a fleet without signalling your change of intentions too obviously: now.  Right now, a Fleet Berlin build does not scare/worry your English ally, because it's clearly meant to pin down scandanavia (F Den S Ber-Bal, next season, F Bal S Den-Swe, and you work with England to support them into StP).  Any build of a fleet later is clearly meant to attack England, and they see it coming.  It's almost as obvious a telegraphed signal as Austria building a fleet (I could *tell* Italy that I'll use it against Turkey, but they'd have to be pretty dumb to believe that!)
Yeah good points. I’ll see what I can do.
For what it's worth: if you and England go after Swe + Stp, I don't really see Russia trying to retaliate on land: that stretches them super wide and thin, with some armies in the south fighting Turkey, and some against you, and a big gaping hole in the middle... where I sit with a pile of armies.  So if they're sensible, they'll just grumble loudly and ignore the loss in the north, biding their time to strike back once Turkey's subdued and they hope they can trust me to join them against you.  It's all in the timing, though!  I'd certainly not prefer it, but you could play nice with them, hoping you can work with them against *me* in the mid-game.  But I'm going to hope you don't go that way, because doing that just leaves your back wide open to English perfidy. 🙂
That’s exactly why I brought up Russia. In a few more rounds I see them being just as thin but you me and England being stronger and with less weak spots near them.
Yep, I'm right there with you. Let's keep watch, and if my working with them means that they end up getting a build from Turkey (likely, esp. if Turkey keeps messing up like this past season), I'll let you know in advance so that perhaps that's a time when you and England can make sure the lose one in the north at the same time to stay "thin enough" 🙂
How’s it going?  Is Italy helping France survive, helping you kill them faster, or begging for a piece of the pie?  Looks like you’ve got Russia pretty well pinned down in the north, too!
Going pretty good. Looks like it for you too. I think Italy is coming in to get their piece of France before it’s all gone. We’ll see how it gets divided. Yeah especially with England’s fleets up north.
You and Russia have got Turkey finished off in a matter of a few turns it looks like. Any idea of where you’re going next?
I’d be game for doing some damage to Russia with you, or if you decide to it’s time to go after England with some minor Russian help, I could go the other way and take on Italy.  I’m flexible 🙂  My only preference is coordination: me going after Russia while you going after England leaves us both in 1:1 situations, inefficient.  So I like it when directions change in close order, when possible.
I’d prefer we go after Russia next. I would like to get a few more fleet builds and create an opening to position myself better against England before making that move. And this way we can remain coordinated.
Understood.  Hopefully we can make that well coordinated (I’ll have to know I’m safe to turn my back on Italy).  I doubt you’ll get a chance to build another fleet without signaling a stab, frankly.  If/when you do it, it’ll probably need to be a “fall turn stab for Bel or Nwy or Bre, build a fleet with that build” kind of stab.  No England with a brain would look at a German ally building a third fleet as any ally worth keeping around.
Yeah I get that. Now it’s just a matter of timing it between who else I’m attacking and when a stab is available. Don’t want to overextend myself and end up trapped by England and whoever else we were just working against.
Hey there.  1 new build and 1 rebuild.  What's the plan with those?  Any directions you are thinking about for what should happen with our neighbors?  Italy/England/Russia - is it time for us to work together, or go "back to back" and don't work "together", but pointing opposite directions (me attacking Italy or Russia, you attacking England)?  Not sure whether you want to coordinate or not, let me know!
Hey sorry busy weekend. I don’t think this is the turn for me to attack England. Don’t know my plans yet though. What about you?
If you’re not going after England, I can’t imagine there’s a better time than now for Bal c Kie-Lvn, Ber-Pru, Mun-Sil, given that it locks War in the fall and gives a strong play for Mos.  But don’t do that, it’d only leave Rum and Sev for me! 😉
After I didn’t hear back about where all those armies were going, I worried it might be towards me, so I covered a hole in my defenses. No offense intended: if you want to coordinate with me, just let me know and we can see what works?
I do not plan on attacking you. Can you move back away this turn. I can’t use some units to attack other countries if they need to be positioned to defend against you.
I would appreciate if you could respond soon. We can stay together as central powers.
I’m not attacking you!  But I had to move my armies into a position where they didn’t scare my more vulnerable neighbors.  I had to either straight out attack Russia, or Italy, and I’m not the sort to get into a war without a solid plan with an ally going with me.  Are you and England working together against Russia?  Or are you just devoting a little extra resources to hold Russia back?  I asked you last season what the coordinated plan was, but you either didn’t want to share or needed to go it alone at first, which is fine, but if we want to avoid slowing each other down, we need to talk about it, even if we’re not attacking the same person at the same time, you know?
If you want to do full out war with Russia, do you need my help, or will England’s be enough?  I don’t think you’ll be successful just by yourself.  But I could instead slide south to attack Italy, who is another central power, but if I do that, I wouldn’t have enough resources to *also* head north with you.
Got it thanks. Let’s come up with a plan an coordinate after the builds.
So I understand it may take a season or two to ensure we have a safe way of collaborating (if I propose a plan now, you may not trust I'll do it, and have to tell me you'll do it, but then protect yourself instead) - I'd prefer to have a plan where we both agree on what can work, even if it means being a little slower.  For example, you might say "I have to sit here and double-support Munich to make sure I don't lose it, but we can work together once I see I'm not under threat - just don't take too long" or even "I'm going to have to push back at you for this season, but as soon as you can move into Galicia we can attack Russia together from there".  I'm open to suggestions.
One other option, given the builds which happened: Russia built a northern fleet, so if you wanted, we could go in a different direction than attacking them - I could go south and attack Italy, and you and Russia could attack England together.  Just keeping options open...
Thanks you I would like to rebuild trust.
I will be holding in Mun and moving to Sil. Can you support Ber to Sil?
Maybe you could move Vie-ADR?
Ven-Adr definitely makes sense, as does your move to Sil.  I can move to Gal as well.
Thank you. Glad to work together again.
Man that sucks. Why’d you do that?
I didn't think they'd actually take it - I really just wanted to make sure Italy got into Marseille.  I'm sorry about that - obviously if I'd wanted to attack you I would have done it myself!  It should be pretty easy to repair though, right?
Of course, you could just leave that unit in Munich for now, where you can keep an eye on it?  Once you have it surrounded, you crush it easily.  Right now if I don't support Warsaw you can get it guaranteed: Bal-Lvn cuts that support, and Sil S Pru-War gets in, if I move gal?
Can you move to Gal?
I’m in Gal already, what do you mean?
Sorry, are you moving Gal? Is what I meant to ask.
You mean can I move Gal so you know it’s not supporting War?
Yeah, what is your plan for that unit?
I was going to cover Bud because part of the reason I had to make moves dangerous for you was because Russia is all around me right now, and I need to get them not focused on taking 2-3 of my centers.  Once they are not totally hovering over me, I’m more safe to actually counterattack
Ok we’ll see after this turn I suppose.
Gal can cover Bud, Alb can cover Ser, was some of what I’m doing to make sure I’m less likely to get smashed.
Hello Russia, would you like to work together?
Greeting Good Sir Kaiser,

An alliance would sound good to me! How about the old Warsaw Pact of 1901 (DMZ in Prussia, Silesia, and Bohemia)?
Agreed.
Can you help me verify some information and see if I can trust the chain of people I have received information from? What are you and Turkey’s plan for the Black Sea?
Are plan is to bounce in the black sea
Hey just want to check in and make sure we’re still good with the dmz you wanted?
Yeah sounds good! Can you sup me into Sweden? I’ll give you Norway if you do...
Hey sorry I didn’t see that, I wasn’t on all yesterday. I’d like to work with you in the north since I’m afraid England is good and will have France soon.
Ok sounds good. What do you have planned?
England is moving out of Nwy back into the oceans. I would like Swe. What are your thoughts?
Ok sounds good I will give you sweeten but in return can you destroy one of your fleets and build somewhere else? That much naval power to the north is scary to StP
Do you need me to destroy and build somewhere else? I want to move it out of the area. England was afraid of the same reasons and will be less suspicious if I move it in rather than rebuild it.
Yeah that works
Supporting you into sweeden
Cool, appreciate the help.
How did you not get sweden last round? I suped you in
I was positioning to get ready for England. Thanks, I’ll get it this turn though!
You’re closing in on Turkey very quickly. How are your relations with Austria?
Almost as good as ours. It will be interesting to see who gets what in Turkey
Good. Have you predetermined the division of Turkey at all?
Ha not much yet. What's your move for the year? Are you stabbing england
Yeah same with France. France wants to give their centers away to England so I do not think this is the turn to stab if they’re about to gain centers so easily. I’ll let you know when I have my moves planned.
Congrats on your progress into France! Looks like you have as good a shot on paris as England or France! With England sailing back North I wanted to ask you to reconsider your allegiances. Since I predicted your stab into my territory, I suggest we get back on good terms vs you continuing your attack (which will be a lot less fruitful without your control of Lvn).  We would make a good team with you going Northwest and me going southwest.
Hello Russia. I would like to discuss the reconsideration of alliances. Are you willing to commit to going against Austria?
I am considering that Austria might be the strongest power on the board at the moment. It looks like they could probably keep that momentum unless they meet resistance from more than one of us.
Yeah Austria is looking pretty strong. What are you thinking for 1904?
I think we start moving on Austria. I need to have Austria thinking I’m not going to attack them so I’ll probably hold Mun and not do much else near them. Maybe move in France too.
Will you let me move Lvn back to Pru?
Sounds good. Yeah I made sure you got Prussia 👌
I know we might be a bit at odds right now, but I don't particularly like you getting attacked from two sides so i thought id let you know that ska is moving to take Den this fall...
Thanks. Are you still planning on attacking me or just letting me know about the second attack?
Greetings Germany! Apologies for my previous string of betrayals. Austria had now in turn betrayed me which leaves me pretty far out of the game (like you are as well unless im mistaken). I propose that I support you into NWY from Sweden to cause a little chaos and prevent the seemingly eminent austria/england win
Hello Russia! Good to hear from you. Excuse my ignorance but how would Austria/England win if the game ends after 1910 winter?
Hey England and I have agreed not to attack you anymore. I have gotten to where I can just defend. And we would prefer if we can allow you to focus on defending Moscow for the rest of the game.
Hey Germany, would you like to work together?
Yes I’d like to work together. Can you let me know what your regional alliances are besides me?
Currently, France and I are keeping the channel clear and, for 1901 only, we aren’t building fleets in Brest or Liverpool.

I’ve asked Russia not to go north and am trying to convince Italy to not hit France.

My preference is to work with you over France long-term because you can build armies while I build fleets, ensuring neither of us can effectively stab the other
To work with you, I’d ask that you don’t build F Kie in 1901 and that you let me have Belgium at some point before 1904
I’m good with that plan. Similarly I’d rather ally with you over France but will be needing to discuss nonaggression for the moment with France.
I can hold off on building fleets initially.
Is your initial plan to move north or toward France?
If you can, please try to convince Austria and Italy to pursue the lepanto. Italy going west at the start fractures the west to the point that we can’t do much without incorporating Italy into our alliance, and Italy doesn’t strike me as an experienced player.
1901 is just Norway. Beyond that, I’m thinking France, unless am opportunistic StP presents itself
Are you planning on hitting Bur right out of the gate? If so, I might need to adjust my plans.
I have briefly talked to both Italy and Austria in my direct interests only. I will try to convince Italy East is ideal.
Ok I am fine with your Northern plans. I haven’t heard enough from Russia yet to exchange anything of use there.
Not sure about Bur yet. Can you share what your plans would be depending on what I do with that army?
I’m thinking. I’ll get back to you. I’m putting my kid to bed soon.
If you order
F Kie - Den and either
A Mun - Ruh + A Ber - Mun Or
A Mun - Bur + A Ber - Kie

Then I can swap to

F Lon - EC
F Edi - Nth
A Yor - Wal
So basically a southern English opening + either a pure Anschluss or Rhineland
I’m thinking F Kie - Den, A Mun - Ruh, A Ber - Mun. I’ll let you know if there are any changes but right now I’m unsure about Italy’s intentions.
I would like to take Bel in 1901 if possible. Are you for sure going against France
I thought you wanted it before 1904? I’d prefer if I got Belgium initially and then could move on to France while giving Belgium to you at a later time. Would you be ok with that?
If I can take it in 1901, I’d prefer that so that I can put out a navy that can break into MAO without losing EC.

We each get 5 if we split
Germany: Den, Hol, Swe, Par, Mar
England: Nrwy, Bel, Bre, SP, Por

This split also puts my navy away from you and pushes you towards armies, which is more sustainable long-term.

I said before 1904 because it is possible that France will order A Par - Pic & A Mar - Bur, or some other combination of moves that makes it near impossible for us to take Bel in 1901.
What do you think?
This is a partnership and I would prefer to treat it that way.
Ok I can agree to all of that. Sounds like a plan.
I’m set to hit France.

What have you heard from Russia about up north?
I have an idea. You tell France that I (England) am being super rude and making all sorts of demands and you would rather not work with me, but you need France to support you (Germany) into Bel because I’m convoying there and you need to build F Kie.

Depending on France’s response we hit some combination of Bel, Hol, and Bre.

What do you think?
Scratch that
I want to hear France and Italy’s reactions before we make plans for this season. I think it could help us be more efficient if we can use that to guess correctly.
France told me you had EC as dmz and I wasn’t openly aggressive so I’ll pretend like I’m going to side with them to get their orders.
France told me you had EC as dmz and I wasn’t openly aggressive so I’ll pretend like I’m going to side with them to get their orders.
Ok
Any thoughts?
France is expecting you to move to Brest. Where do you think we should move?
I’m hitting Bel. You could go Bur and Hol?
Yeah I can do that.
I’m thinking two fleets for me. Will you hold off on building a fleet this year?
Sure I can do that this turn.
If you can put your fleets on the west so you can get around Spain and put pressure there that’d be great. Especially because France is all armies on the main area.
And the we can talk about plans up north after builds.
As long as Russia doesn’t build A StP or F StP(NC), my plan for 1902 is to move into MAO via Irish, EC, and NwgS, with one fleet in Nth. I might be able to convoy you into pic.
I’ve been talking to some people about Russia and since I bounced them in Sweden and they don’t believe my excuse I think I need to build a fleet to take to Bal.
Can you live with that? I won’t be able to make use of another army right now against France anyways.
If you build in Ber
I think we can lock up the north now. What do you want to do for France?
I can hold in Hol so you can convoy that army somewhere in the fall. I can support Bel to Bur. While I move Bur to Gas.
If Russia moves to Pru, you might have a problem if you hold A Hol.

What do you think about
A Bel - Pic
A Bur S A Bel - Pic
A Mun S A Bur H
A Hol - Kie?
I don’t think I need to worry about Pru. Austria is pretty strong on Russia’s south west.
The rest looks good though if you’re good with that plan. Still thinking about what to do with Hol. But that doesn’t really affect you so much.
What are you doing with your Norway fleet?
F Nrwy - NwgS
Ok I’m moving A Hol - Kie.
What are your plans?
I’m thinking A Bur-Mar if I can get Italy on board. A Mun-Bur. What do you want to do?
What are your plans?
I am trying to get Italy to support me Bur-Mar but they think Par will be supporting Bre rather than cutting my support from Bur-Mar. Anything you could say to them to convince them to support me into Mar?
I’ll try to think of something to say
Thanks.
I don’t really know what to tell him that would convince him to support you in. He’s in the better support position but he has to realize that he needs the center more than he needs France dead
You have any ideas?
Bur-Gas, Mun-Bur. And then I can take it myself next year.
Any thoughts? What are your plans?
Scratch that last plan. Italy is going to support me into Mar.
What are you doing?
Sorry, my birthday is today and I was at dinner.
I think I’m going to shoot for Bre, just in case it’s open. If I’m bounced in MAO, then that means France won’t be getting a center.
Happy birthday! Hope it’s been a good one!
Yeah that plan is what I was thinking too.
What’s your next move? I think if you generally swing around Spain toward Italy while I work on Russia in the north we can finish off France and move on to our next targets.
I agree. I’d rather you didn’t build another fleet right now. Would that be ok?
Yeah sorry I didn’t respond before adjudication but that was my plan. Figured you wouldn’t want me to build fleets.
In return for me not having fleets could you avoid NTH?
I’d like to discuss who we can attack next as well since France is on the ropes.
I’ll move F Edi - NwgS then Nrwy. I’m keeping F Bel there in case France retreats.

I say we’re close to stabbing Italy and Austria. Russia is not in a position to fight back and never will be with turkey so messed up. What do you think?
I was thinking maybe I take on Russia and you work towards Italy. It will be a little longer of a route for you but will help you secure the West.
Would you mind leaving StP open until I take it? Having only one unit bordering Nrwy would help keep things stable
So like don’t go to stp?
What are your plans for this turn?
I’m setting myself up for Iberia.

If you take StP, I’d very much prefer that you did it by taking StP(SC) instead of using an army. That way we can maintain stability in the north
Can I have your support into Paris? I’d also like to ask how we were planning on dividing France so as to keep things balanced?
I thought we discussed you get Par and Mar and I get Bre + the Iberian.

Can you take Mar instead?
What are you planning on this turn?
What’s the deal with Austria?
If I get Par and Mar, can you not support me from Bre?
Need to talk to Austria but they’re claiming defensive positioning after not responding in time to messages.
Please don’t take StP with an army.
I’m not planning on it. And I really doubt I’d be able to with Russia picking up 2 centers in Turkey.
Oh, I missed that. Is Austria going to start sniping Italy?
Im talking with them but unsure right now. I got myself in a bind when I fell asleep the other night when negotiating with Austria and they moved toward me. I hope they’ll draw back and choose to go after Russia or Italy next but I doubt it’ll be Russia based on their collaboration to finish Turkey off faster.
Yeah, I think we can hold against Russia with what we have up there. Austria might be tricky.
Can you keep moving fleets toward the Mediterranean after France falls to prepare for fighting Austria? I have a feeling Italy will fall soon after France unless Austria just chooses another target.
I’ll move some, but I need to keep a couple back to keep you honest and maintain control of Nth. This is why I’ve been so pushy about your fleet production and keeping armies out of StP/Fin. If you don’t build fleets, then I don’t have to keep people in the rear.
Understood. I’ve already selected my build to be an army. I don’t want to do anything that makes either of us hold back from our adversaries any more than necessary just to cover a potential stab.
And Austria is about to smack Mun, which is unfortunate.

Should I go ahead and dump a fleet into StP so that you can take Mos?
Let’s hold briefly while we wait to see builds. But that might be necessary.
F Bel H

What do you think about
A Bre - Gas
F ENG - MAO
F MAO - Naf
F NTH - Nwy
F WES S MAO - Naf

And then you order
F Swe - Fin
A Kie - Swe
F Bal C A Kie - Swe

That’s a risky move, but I don’t know how to keep A Liv alive without leaving Pru open as a retreat area, and there’s no point in leaving A Kie boxed in.
Any thoughts?
I like your moves. I’m worried this will over commit me toward Russia right when Austria is at my doorstep. If it the right time to push further East?
I share your concern
Can you s A bre - has
Yes you have my support.
Obviously I meant gas instead of gas, but I think you already figured that out
A Par - Bur
F Bal Kie
A Sil - Mun
A Ber S A Sil - Mun
A Ruh S A Sil - Mun

What do you think?
?
Yes I’ll do most of that besides BAL -Kiel.
What are your plans?
A Mun could retreat to Kie
Ah thanks. Completely overlooked that.
Just trying to figure out the Mediterranean right now.
If you put A Par - Bur, you’ll be in a good place to take mar next year
Yeah I’m moving Par-Mar.
Are you trying to take Iberia first? Or push into the med against Italy?
Do you know anything about what Italy is planning? I’m debating what moves I should do first, but I don’t know if Italy is going to cover Tun
Not sure yet. I’ve talked a little with Italy but nothing sure yet. I’ll let you know if I find out before the deadline.
Thanks
Italy is planning on taking WES this turn. And they want to use France as a distraction to keep you occupied. That’s all I could get out of them.
Hey what do you want to do this turn?
Unless we can get Russia on our side, we are going to lose. I’m not going to be able to hold the stalemate line in the south and it’s lost up north.
I think you should move F Swe - Bot as a bounce before you delete the unit.
Yeah have you talked to Russia any?
I tried
I goofed. I forgot to change F EC - Nth to F EC - MAO
I’m sorry. I’ve doomed us.
Well the end is near. No worries. I’ll help you try to make a stand. I definitely don’t think I’ll make it to 1910 but you still have a chance.
Oh well. You need to get Italy to recognize the Austrian threat or get Russia on our side. He’s mad at you for moving to Liv forever ago.
Yeah that was a stupid decision on my part and I doubt I can sway him now that he and Austria have momentum.
I’m so happy that Italy didn’t retreat to Mao
Do you need anything from me
Will you be able to check back later tonight? I’m working until like 10.
I’ll try to remember. I’m usually in bed by 10.
Nothing too particular. But if you want to send a fleet for Norway we can try for StP next move?
Sure
Cool thanks. Let me know if you need anything from me.
I’ll support Gas - Mar. Anything else you want to do?
Sorry I forgot to move so you could take StP.
No problem. I’ve ordered A Gas - Mar.
I’m building an army in Edi to convoy to Nrwy.
Is that ok?
Ok cool that works for me. Let me know if you want me to make any different moves from what I’m making consistently.
Yes sorry I had forgotten to thumbs up my reply.
F BAL - Ber
A Bur S Ruh
A Kie S BAL - Ber
A Ruh S Kie
F Swe S Edi - Nwy
Here’s what I have. Any thoughts?
Because A Ruh currently be displaced, what do you think about ordering A Bur - Mun to cut potential Mun support instead of A Bur S A Ruh?
Makes perfect sense to me. Updated my orders.
We have to manage Russia’s collapse. Austria stabbing is great, but we need to be careful
Ok let me know if you have any suggestions for what I should do.
If I were in your shoes, I’d hold F Ber and then use A Ruh and A Bur to support A Kie - Mun. Austria stabbed Russia. You might be able to take Mun back and rebuild your armies.

Separately, would you please support A Nrwy - Fin?
I will support. That plan works for me. Fingers crossed.
I guess I didn’t hit submit on my build. Sorry about that. Let me know if you need me to do anything.
I’m struggling with how to handle Ber, Bal, Mun, and Fin. Any ideas?
What do you think about the following? It keeps Russia from threatening Den and Kie

F Ber - BAL
A Bur - Mun
A Mun - Ber
A Ruh S Bur - Mun
F Swe S Ber - BAL
Yeah I’ll probably lose Ber but that sounds about as good as I could figure out too.
Chat is back up, and my orders are in
We need to be careful with Austria because he is close to at least 2 stalemate lines

position 1 http://uk.diplom.org/pouch/Online/StalematesAtoY/staleIII.htm

Part II position 1 http://uk.diplom.org/pouch/Online/StalematesAtoY/southern-progressive.htm
Ok so those are their positions and what recommendations on their orders? Let me know if you have any ideas to prevent it.
To slow him down, I think you need to contest Boh. I know that means you might lose Berlin, but you can always destroy it build an army in Kie.

If we can keep him out of Boh, then he’ll have to do a bunch of shuffling towards Turkey and we’ll have a better chance of taking Moscow
I think we need you to get your armies to the front in Austria. Are you going to have Boh hold while being supported
I think this is what I’ll do with the Austrian front. It’ll cut any support from the adjacent countries.
A Ber - Sil
A Boh - Vie
A Mun - Tar
Any suggestions?
I’ve told Russia that I’m not advancing anymore because Austria becomes invincible if he takes Moscow. He might be open to working with us in exchange for survival
Ok I’ll message them in the morning a similar thing.
Russia is not entering orders. We need to get to Moscow now
Are you moving Ber to Pru? You might need all of the support to do it
I think we’d be better off if you supported Moscow holding. We aren’t in a position to take it.
Hello Turkey, would you be interested in a information sharing agreement? There shouldn’t be any direct conflict between us anytime soon but you can probably get information out of France and England better that me due to location.
Hello! I would be happy to accept this agreement.
Great to hear! How is your relationship with Russia? Plans for Black Sea?
At the moment I'm speaking with him about a potential dmz
Hello, 

Could I expect a peace from my east?
Yes you can expect peace from the east.
Can you confirm the same for me?
Sure I can, lets keep bur DMZ and do not move there
Ok agreed.
Would you be interested in an adventure south?
I’m not opposed. I’m trying to convince Italy to lepanto. So maybe if you and I could hold of on appearing aggressive towards Italy they could shift their focus on the eastern med.
Do you have any plans with England? Or know of England’s plans?
For Italy: I'd like to have you press him to go east.

With England I do have a DMZ agreed
Working on Italy. I’ll let you know when I know for sure.
Hey, England is being very aggressive. What do you think they’re going to do?
I find your moves interesting. Yes England is hostile to me and if you join him I'm out, but if you join me we can successfully defend the mainland while taking out Italy. More centers and then after English centers are easy grab.
I can explain my reasoning if that helps. F Kie-Den is obvious choice in my opinion to get a center and get involved in the north, A Mun-Ruh is still in agreement with what we discussed and gives me a little say on Holland/Belgium, A Ber-Mun was mostly as a deterrent to Italy from attacking Austria and a little bit vice versa.
I’ve had a neutral enough opening. Want me to ask England anything to try to predict their moves?
I see, but if you moved into tyr italy could be done until 1903, especially if austria joins
No need, England is probably going for Brest
Ok I’m not so sure about attacking Italy though, let me talk to Austria and get back to you. I won’t give away anything you’ve told me.
Still interested in attacking Italy or no?
Definitely not anymore
I will surrender to england, with only one center to survive
Is there a reason you’ve chosen to surrender to England?
Italy and I have discussed things and would rather rebuild you and push back on England together if you’re interested in not surrendering.
He is stronger so he can protect me better. If you do intend to do so, please move back from my lands.
Working out the plan but yes that is the intention. Will you commit to working with us?
How do you intend to fight england with all those armies?
Strong alliances and putting myself at risk. But I think with your help we can limit any gains England could get this turn and I could get 2 builds. If they take you this turn it’s probably all over.
I have Italy committed to helping with their fleets and not attacking you or me. I have Austria on board with a non aggression agreement. And I am discussing terms with Russia. You are the final piece to the puzzle. I’d really like your help.
Really?
Yeah but if I can’t get you on board this plan will be scrapped and I’ll need something else. If they can add 2 centers while I take 2 that’s isn’t worth the risk of turning on my strongest ally.
And you have built all the armies and dare to ask me to join your "plan" while italy is keeping his mouth shut? Thats why england is getting my centers
Which center is England letting you keep?
Not something I wish to share
Hello Russia!  I’m curious as to how you like to play this game?  I’m often a big fan of the A/R alliance: Turkey is a great initial target, Germany second, with Italy coming next after that for me and England next for you.  Lots of possibilities!  Any thoughts?
Greeings Austria!

I agree the old Jug is a little obvious, I do believe that A/R is a lot more flexible for both of us ! 

How do you envision a 1901?
We could bounce in Gal, as that’s a fairly safe way to maintain those two units in a rearguard position, for starters.  Then there’s Turkey: if I can convince them that you’re going north so that they can move quickly with their fleets with me (ie Ank-Con) then you could just *take* BLA, which would speed up this whole endeavor right away.  If we don’t think they’ll do that (or you don’t want to lie in 01), you two could just bounce there and go to Mos-Ukr while I go to Ser, then in the Fall you could either take Rum with the fleet (so you can force BLA), or else I support you into Rum from Ukr while going for BLA again.  Of course, Italy goes Trl and Ven right out of the gate, I won’t be as useful an ally to you ;p
Any thoughts on 1901 moves?  Germany and Italy both seem content to play cautiously (so they say: the Anschluss "hold in Munich" from Germany, and "how about a Lepanto?" from Italy), and Turkey is making friendly sounds but nothing concrete.  You feeling like the typical "3 units south" approach, so we can pick apart Turkey? I don't seen any obvious E/G fighting right out of the gate to give you an easy opening into Scandanavia (as cool as that would be - A/R alliances where R gets in the west early can do some fun things...)
Agreed on the bounce in Gal. Yeah if you can convince turkey to move F to Con that would be great!
Are you worried that Italy will disrupt you this spring?
Italian 1901 moves are a wildcard.  I think they want to take it cautious, which means I’d have a tiny bit of breathing room, but if you were Italy and wanted to dive into Austria, wouldn’t you tell them you wanted to move cautiously, too? ;p
Yeah fair, what are your 1901 plans then? Going for Serbia and keeping Trip defended might be the way to go then?
Wow the west looks way more fun than what we’re all doing!
Ha how's that?
England gets into the channel with the aggressive convoy from Wales option, Germany puts two on Bur, and France weirdly decides to launch an army into the east.  Things will move fast over there.
Of course we could slow things down for them if it starts to look out of hand.  And we (you, especially) need to watch a nascent E/G alliance.  I’m sure we’ll be able to do some fun stuff too 🙂  We should talk to France so they don’t crumble too quickly.
Wait dumby question im used to playdip. Why does the board show some people's spring moves and not others
Yeah that Germany/English alliance is looking pretty formidable. Looks like we do have An anti-Turkish Italy which could be useful. We need France to give E/G a fight. It'd be nice for us to get Sweden, but im looking pretty outgunned to the North.
The board shows me everyone’s moves, did you go back a season to see the moves, or are you only looking at the current position?
I see the board now, It just showed me everyones moves but Turkeys and mine it was weird
That is definitely odd!
At least you have no worries about an English army in Nwy, right next to StP.  How did you want to play Rum?  Tell Turkey you’re supporting your fleet into there, and if they stab you by taking BLA in the fall, you’ll build F Sev in the winter to force them right back out?  Totally valid defensive threat, and maybe convinces them to leave Ank where it is?
Yeah that would be a good play! Are you going for the second build in Greece, not sure how that will play out with Italy and Turkey. I'm debating whether or not to go for Sweden or send my fleet South
I’m definitely going for Gre: Italy can’t guarantee a build without taking Tunis, which keeps Ion from being involved in Gre in any direction.  Turkey may not feel like letting me have Gre... but I can support myself in, so they can’t really stop it either.
Yeah you need Greece, agreed. What if I tell Turkey that I will sup their bulgarian army into rum, which will then free up your army in serbia to actaully support me into rum. Then your albanian fleet gets greece for free
Do you think Turkey will believe that?  We could try, but I’d hate to go for Gre unsupported and have Turkey decide at the last minute the they don’t trust you, or want to keep me from getting Gre.  Let’s sound them out and see whether we can tell what they’re likely to do, and go from there?
Sounds good
Supporting you into Rum will show my hand as your ally, but that has to happen at some point.  If I do that, do I have your assurance that in exchange, next season you'll do: Rum S Ser-Bul, so we can squeeze them back into their homeland?  We'll need that to succeed in Spring so that in case they get into Aeg they can't stop it for the fall.
Hey so let me know what you think about fall plans, when you get a chance- although I imagine you’re hopefully having much more fun doing some New Year’s party or something 🙂
Looks like we only have 13 hrs until adjudication- quick timetable on this game, I guess!
In case you’re out partying and only read this while I’m asleep: if your good with my offer (I support you into Rum now, you support Ser-Bul next season), then it’s a deal.  Also: since you didn’t ask for any particular plans in the War/Vie/Gal/Boh/Sil region, I’m going to assume a “bounce-enforced-DMZ” of Gal is still in effect, and we can do that again. If you’re planning instead on poking at Germany to remind them to be nice about Swe, I can instead cover Trieste.  I could see how F Bal + A Pru could wreck havoc on a German position where their fleet has landed way up in Sweden. Kie + Ber + Den sitting kinda wide open.  Just let me know, or else we can stick with another bounce for now.
Yeah sounds good
so that's a yes for "I get you Rum, you help support me into Bul next season",  and "let's stay off of Germany's doorstep for now, fight one war at a time", yeah? 🙂
and I *assume* you meant you want support for Ukr-Rum, since you're doing Sev-Bla to keep Turkey out, right?  Because you didn't actually say which unit you were sending to Rum... would be very sad to order a support for the wrong unit, y'know?
Yeah I’m not going to poke Germany. Sup my army, in moving into BlA with my fleet. You’ll get bul next season 👍🏻
cool. that's what I had ordered already, but glad to confirm.
wow, I'm glad I picked you to work with, and not Turkey.  I really hate picking allies who can't get their orders in!
As a consequence, you can build Sev and force Arm in spring and crush Bul at the same time, and in fall 02, bul-con ensures that Con S Ank is cut, and Bla S Arm-Ank succeeds and the turk ends '02 on 2 dots.
Seems like you made a bit of a mis-order on War-Gal, though - that wasn't intentional, was it?  I didn't want to *be* in Gal, I just wanted it empty.  I can try to get out of your way there... but its going to be a bit crowded after the builds.
Oh yeah sorry about that I don't know what went wrong, yeah I guess try to evacuate that unit so it can actually be useful to us. Trying to decide whether to build north or south rn...
Want to plan a german offensive? It looks like we have a lot of free units that could attack them
two fronted war?  Do we maybe want to pin down Turkey so they're unable to become a threat first, pick up one more build from them each?  Plan for that: build in Sev, then do F Bla S Sev-Arm in spring, and F Bla S Sev-Ank in fall.  Meanwhile, Rum+Gre S Ser-Bul in spring, and in fall, I hit Bul-Con to cut their support, so that Ank is unsupported in the fall, and we get both Bul+Ank in one year.  One build for each of us, Turkey's down to 2 centers and can't cause much trouble (even behind us), and we can turn our attention more easily on Germany?  We could use our rearguard units to push up on the German line now, but to actually break through, requires a ton of force: we really need Trl+Boh+Sil+Pru to ensure we crack Mun+Ber, unless they leave themselves totally undefended.  Even just 2 armies back there and it's slow going, and they can pull Hol-Kie to fill in another support in one move.  I'm game, but it seems maybe a year early?
Oh I didn’t see they build a fleet in Berlin... this means they’ll force Swe and put pressure on StP- unless you can convince them to work with you against England instead.  Once the push fleets like that, they’ll be way out of position and yeah we can crack them.  Maybe we can afford to push sooner... we should consider some tactics... I could perhaps be convinced.
So in theory, if we did the whole "AIR-head" alliance, we *could* blitz westward all at once now: Vie-Boh, Gal-Sil, War-Pru, Ven-Trl.  All three of us go after germany now, and in the fall, we make supported attacks on both Munich and Berlin.  One has to fall, and if they aren't careful in spring, both could in the same year.  The problem with that kind of plan is it requires tons of trust for you, me and Italy.  You have to trust me to not dive right in to Warsaw as you walk out, Italy has to trust leaving their entire homeland totally undefended, and I have to launch a two front war where my two allies could just coordinate instead walking Ven-Tri + Tun-Ion-Alb while you do War-Gal as I'm getting out of the way.  Fun kind of things to do when trust has been built, but I don't know y'all one bit, yet. 🙂
so since I'm not sure I want to commit to jumping all over Germany just yet, I want to make sure you don't stress about my "bored" armies: my orders will involvee Vie H, Gal-Bud, as well as the Gre S Ser-Bul while you do Rum S Ser-Bul as well, ok?  Italy will have a unit F Eas after this move, and will be convoying the army over to peel apart Smy and help you into Arm to take Ank.  If you want to leave Gal open for now, we can keep it as a DMZ so you don't need to worry about Ukr or anything like that.  Unless you have any other concrete plans you'd prefer to do, that is.
Yeah I am totally on board for your proposal that gets us one build each this round from turkey. i was juts saying we should start moving into Germany's territory, without making a full attack yet. Gal-Boh and Vie-Tyr could set us up for that next turn. As for working with Italy, that is an option but how much have you been talking with them so far? Yeah any ideas to the north for retaining StP?
Yeah sounds good to me. How will gal move to budapest since theres an army already there? Also how have negotaitions with italy gone? Do they expect Smy? or Con?
Gal-Bud, Bud-Ser, Ser-Bul, Gre S Ser-Bul.  The latter succeeds as long as you hold up your end of the bargain and order Rum S Ser-Bul.  You mis-order that, or "forget", and I am not able to get out of your way in Gal. :p
RE: Con/Smy/Ank: I've talked to Italy, and they're going for Smy, and will support me into Con, and if you need it (you won't, by then) I'll support you into Ank.  A nice 3-way split of Turkey.
Ofc Im not looking to break our alliance anytime soon XD. A dual win is very possible for us...
RE: StP.  That's tricky.  If you send War north to help you hold it (which it will, for a year or two, until they bring all three of those fleets to bear at once), you're using the army which we'd want to be useful in Sil/Pru.  As long as you cover StP now, they can't take it from you this year.  They get Swe this year, and spring of next year they move into position, and then finally in fall they have 2-3 units in position to take StP.  By then we should be able to make them think twice about that, either by backing up StP with some army strength, or else losing it temporarily while we push against Mun+Ber on land.
To your second point im not entirely sure about 2 builds for you, one for me, and one for italy (long term that is). Could I have Con and then give you smy next year? That would leave me with 1 more army the you, but that seems fair since im a lot more spread
RE: StP, yeah ill keep negotiating with E/G and if i can't get anywhere with them ill go for the protect StP at all costs> I think I might be able to play one against the other though
Long term, we don’t need Italy, no.  In fact we can probably just take Smy from them the very year after they get it: if Turkey is dead and Italy has lots of fleets, they’ll be going after France, which only strengthens E/G further which we don’t want.
But as for current plans, we already splitting equally: I supported you into Rum (wasn’t needed, but I ordered it and that told Turkey I was their enemy, that cost me something), so you agreed to one season’s worth of support for me to get Bul: an even trade.  Then I’ll make sure to keep tapping Con each season to cut support for Ank, which gets you that one, which would mean a fair trade after that is Con for me, which I won’t need your support for, just your permission that I can take it for myself and we’re still good.  Italy taking Smy on their own helps both of us, because it gets rid of a unit which can support Con or Ank.  Once this stuff is done, however, I’m open to giving you Smy, especially if we’re both moving against Germany and splitting Mun/Ber for the two of us.
But if you see it differently, let me know. Diplomacy is the name of the game, and it’s not a compromise unless everyone is equally  unhappy 😉
Fair  but the one thing for us to consider is if I get to builds this year I can put them to the north and two fleets would be the perfect support for out German invasion in the following year
A fleet in the north would be *awesome*, yes.  If it looks like we have a chance at making sure that happens, I’m definitely interested in trying to help that become a reality.  That totally opens up stalemate lines which otherwise get locked down.
Looks like Turkey has to choose this next season: block Arm, or Syr.  Can’t do both. I’ll be in Aeg to make sure Turkey cracks open totally next year.  I’m moving my armies a little south as well, to help them from worrying you 🙂
And yeah, you’re going to need two builds from Turkey sooner rather than later.  That should be doable pretty quickly.
In fact, I’m a bit worried about your western border already.  If you want to watch your back, and send that Rumanian army through the Gal DMZ so that you have two units covering War (in case Germany thinks about: Mun-Sil + Bal C Kie-Pri - yikes!), I’m cool with that if it’s just passing through for defensive reasons.
Yeah that is a little worrying. Should I just sup my Sev army inot Arm again?
If you want to ensure you own Ank at the end of next year, I think you need to do that supported attack again, yes.  If you're worried about Germany and want to redeploy west, that's fine too, but it'll make it slower to get you a Turkish build.
If I were you, I'd send the Rumanian army to cover your western flank and keep hammering at Turkey so you can get builds (first Ank next year, then like we discussed, you can have Smy: we'll have to steal it from Italy, which may mean I need to stab them, and if I do that, I won't be able to simultaneously fight against Germany as much with you, but we can figure that out when we get to it)
Maybe Turkey forgot to order again... then they’ll lose all three of their units next season (and we’ll be able to get you Ank and Smy *both* next year).  Make sure your orders are submitted just in case!
Awesome: the Turk chose to defend Syria not Arm.  Attacks on Con and Smy ensure you get Ank in spring.  Good to see England backed off in the north, nice diplomatic work on your part 🙂
hey things look pretty straightforward in the south: we both do supported attacks on Ank + Con, and Smy can only support one.  The other is destroyed in Spring.  Then in fall, whoever got in supports the other attack, and we get one build each next year.
Sounds good I plan on moving in on ank. what are your orders for bul and greece? Moving ser-trip coould set up a free build from italy this turn as well. Also any ideas on keepung france around a little longer. Germand  and England don't seem that close
Also, I've heard intel that Germany is moving on us now. I suggest Vie-Boh and bringing your other units north would help us have the perfect counterattack for the following year when we get reinforcements
Yeah, moving two units back to Vie and Boh, now, and I would frankly be very worried, if I were you, of this: F Bal C Kie-Lvn, Ber-Pru, Mun-Sil.  That would crack War in one season and put huge pressure Mos.
But if Germany does that, I’ll be ready to put pressure on them in Boh at least.
are you going to cover against Germany too?
Nice save, in the north! And if Turkey messes up in the fall, you get both builds from Ank and Smy in one year.  Plus I’m covering your butt by moving to Boh so that Mun won’t go to Sil, so you’re looking pretty good! I’m going to need that build from Con this year, to get a second fleet: England is coming!
Yeah, Im glad I got the bounce to the north or i'd be in real trouble. Wait I don't think turkey even has to make a mistake. If I sup you into con from BLA than that prevents con from suping SMY from my two pronged attack from ank and arm
If Turkey orders con-ank, that cuts support of Ank s arm-smy.  If you attack the other way, arm s Ank-smy, you’ll get into smy, but con-Ank will recapture Ank.
If you do Bla s Ank, Ank s arm-smy, you keep Ank but again con-Ank cuts support for your attack on smy.
However: Aeg s Arm-Smy, Bla s Bul-Con *is* guaranteed, now that I look closer!  They have no fleets to cut either support now, so if we do that, then all three Turkish centers drop this turn! I missed that in my earlier analysis, thanks for making me dig into it again!
Can you take a look and make sure I’m reading the tactics on that correctly?
Yeah that's right! We should have the turk out of the game in the winter. You have my support from BLA into Con which guarantees your build, but to guarantee mine could you sup army in Arm into Smy with your AEG fleet? Bc otherwise Turkey has a shot of surviving if he cuts support from ank
Aeg S Arm-Smy and Bul-Con are both already ordered 🙂
You should make sure to leave both StP and Mos open for your two builds.  I’m building F Tri (I’ll need it in the Mediterranean). Are you building a northern fleet now while you have a chance?
F Tri for me, A Mos for you, so F StP(sc) to back up your other fleet and keep England happy, or F StP(nc) to get one out up top before you get bottled in?
Sounds about right
You decide on whether you'll do south coast, or north?  Looks like you've managed to avoid war with England up until now, so probably south coast?
Yeah prob either south coast or army. Im thinking an army could be good since I already have one fleet there
yeah an army can sneak around in Nwy/Fin easier too.
I've played this game a long time, and I don't remember the last time I saw an A/R alliance with both Austria and Russia building fleets in 1903.  That is the sign of an extremely well-functioning alliance for primarily land-based powers. 🙂
Hell yeah man were doing well! How should we coordinate the German offensive this year?
I am going to support France into Munich.  You should push them back to Prussia, right?  I have a little concern that if they go into Sil, we will have a hole in our line - Galicia.  What should we do about that?  Either I can go there, or you can convoy an army from turkey up to Rum, and go into Gal the season after that.  Either way, one of us should transit through Gal towards the front lines.
We can drain our units out of Turkey at the same rate, so we both are safe over there, and get our units where we can make use of them.
Okay sounds good ill pull the  ank army to fill the hole. Would it be valuable to pull that Con army up into the fold? Also I love the support france into Mun play. As for ejecting Germnays foothold in Lvn, I think I march from Moscow right?
I will definitely bring Con out of  there, but do you mind if it waits a season, so that we evacuate Turkey at the same rate? You’ve got 2 units there now, and I’ve got 1. After this season it’ll be one each, and we can pull them out at the same time?  Just helps us both worry less about any asymmetry.
Mos-Lvn, StP and War supports the move, GoB-Bal cuts the possibility of Bal s Lvn, seems like the right set of northern moves?
Re: Turkey- if you want to move faster, we could: I could move my con out now if you are moving both your armies out: Ank-Rum and smy-arm?
So actually I’m not going to stress about Turkey: I’ll trust you and move con-Bul and I suggest you move smy-arm to get that into play as well.  I think I need to go to Gal in case Germany goes to Sil and also retreats lvn-pru- you’ll need extra support to hold War if Germany has pru + sil and can cut Lvn with their fleet.
I can shuffle Gal out of your way so you can get Rum in place to support your own unit, unless you want me to keep Gal there for now?  You could bring your other army around, and move Rum-Ukr?  Either way, if you want to do Rum-Gal, let me know and I will move out of the way.
What are your thoughts?  Seems like a key season for coordination.
I think Ill move Rum-Gal if your cool shuffling. I'll start moving Smy into the fold as well. Want to move Greece to Ion so we have another fleet in the Med?
Since were still bringing units up, I think I will prob not be making any offensives up north unless you have any ideas?
Yep I'll get Gal out of the way and let you get up there to support yourself in the push toward Berlin.  As for moves, Bot-Bal, War S Lvn-Pru, Lvn-Pru might succeed if I ask France (who owes me a favor) to tap Sil?  Or you could counter attack next season after you have Gal in place.
Yeah lets push Germany out of Pru. Ask France to tap Berlin though bc you can tap Sil with Boh. Then we can disband Pru if im looking at this right
I am probably moving Aeg-Ion to hold England off, yes.  And good point re: Sil/Ber.  I'm feeling a little exposed in the Balkans, though.  I may need to cover my butt those southern armies - I would hate for our alliance to fall apart because you noticed shiny dots sitting undefended!
Yeah likewise. I mean to be fair as long as we don't stab each other I think we have the dual win in the bag at this point, which kinda of discourages betrayal. What are you thinking as far as covering rn? To be fair I'm relatively exposed too
Well if I'm leaving Aeg, you'll have no worries about Smy, but I'm looking at Bul and Ser.  Hey maybe if you're not doing anything with Bla this season, we could do Gre-Bul, Bla-Bul(ec), and we'd bounce.  My dot would be safe, and we'd keep the good position we're in, and I wouldn't be any closer to Rum, so you'd still be safe in leaving it for Gal.
I'm not sure about Ser.  I guess I won't worry about it, because if you stabbed me for it, you'd have an army sitting all alone in the middle of my territory, and would not last long.
Agreed on the bounce. Although that wont work next season bc I will convoy that last army into the fold.
Should I also ask France for the cut, or would it be more effective to leave that to you?
we can work out a different bounce if we need it, or maybe we will be just less entangled and won't need to worry about it then.
I asked them already.
and reminded them that their help here is ensuring that their enemy has to enemies pushing on them hard.  Plus, I don't think Mun is under threat right now.
France is tapping Berlin, so I’ll tap Sil and you tap Bal and you should be able to crush Pru!
So, some thoughts on strategy, beyond small tactics: we can keep Italy working with us for another year, but I think if we want to push forward, we need yet another fleet each.  I could take two dots off of Italy next year, keep one build for myself and one you could take from me in Con.  The real key for us, long term, is to get into Bur, Ruh, and fleets in the north
you forgot to bounce me in Bul!  Not the end of the world, but I didn't want to be in Bul.  We may need to put off killing Italy for a little while - they're gaining position against England, and the more tied up in the south that England is, the less ability they have to help you out Germany against you in the north.  Have you thought of offering to support them into Sweden?  It would be amazing for us if G/E started fighting...
You might want to move your Ank army up too Mos, instead of Gal, btw: if you can cover StP with an army, it would free up that fleet to dig in against Den/Swe/Kie/Ber.
Yeah sounds good Ill move that ank army up to cover mos/stp. Ill ask england if they want support into Swe. So should we wait on attacking Italy this year or not? Im not partial either way, but I agree that once we do you should give me some of your builds in the back as you gain from italy. That way i can have some new fleets to make gains to the north
I indeed thinking on holding off on attacking Italy this year, because they are likely to make progress against England.  And yes, if we’re not getting you builds in Germany and I *am* getting builds in Italy, we need you building in the Atlantic, which I can’t do, for sure!  Similarly, if I can break through in France and need builds and you’re getting some in Germany - you’d do the same for me! 🙂
Spring: Boh-Mun (cut their use of that for support), Tri S Vie-Trl, Vie-Trl, Bul-Gre.  You do War S Gal-Sil, Gal-Sil, Pru S Bal-Ber.  This *forces* Germany to do Kie S Ber or else Berlin falls in Spring.  If they do hold Berlin for spring, they lose it in the fall, because Sil can be the mover while Bal cuts Kiel and Pru supports the move, uncuttably.  Fall we possibly also have the option of asking Italy to do Mar-Bur which cuts that support, and then Trl+Boh+Sil to take Mun.  Or that can wait for the next season.  Looking pretty good!
Any thoughts for moves?  Running out of time, let's not lose momentum!
Sounds good! Yeah ill take Sil, threaten Ber, and bring that ank unit north.
Alright well Berlin fell quicker than expected. I'm thinking of moving the sev army into Mos, which should allow me to send my StP fleet to Bot.
I think a quick seizure of Scandinavia will prevent Britain from saving Germany from our ground invasion. That's why i think i should move my Berlin fleet back out to BAL, and replace it with my prussian army (supported by sil just to make sure). then I can move warsaw into prussia to cover that territory.
I think this line of play is in our best inetrsts but I wanted to run it by you to see if you think either of those moves into the baltic sea seemed to risky
Lvn is critical yes.  And Mos.  Berlin is trickier: we can retake the typically hard to capture Munich now with: Ber-Kie, Mar-Bur, Sil+Boh+Trl work together to force Mun
If they knew how to play this game, they’d see that coming and do this: Kie s Mun-Ber, Swe-Bal.  that would evaporate Ber in exchange for losing Mun.  But to avoid losing the fleet you could shuffle Pru out of the way to leave it open for a retreat space.  Or, let them evaporate it, and rebuild F StP(*NC*) which would totally screw them
With a mos, f stp(nc), they are so sunk in Scandinavia
So we could put your Sil army in Munich if you’d like and then Berlin is still easy next year. Yeah I think that’s best: get you Munich for the north coast build, save Pru as a retreat space as well: Pru-Sil to get out of the way in case Ber has to retreat and Bal is taken
France is on board to do Mar-Bur.  So we can get you Munich (and if Germany isn't very smart, you'll have both Munich *and* Berlin)
I’ve already put in orders for Boh and Trl S Sil-Mun
Sounds good!
arggggg!  I told you to do F StP-Lvn, not GoB.  Now you can't build in StP - if you'd gone to Lvn, you'd have fleets in Ber + Lvn + StP, and more easily able to protect against England who will bee convoying an army to Nwy next season (if they have any brains at all)
other than supporting Munich, do need anything from me this season?  I have ideas about the North, but I'll let you ask if you want any advice 😉
(but I can't help myself: StP -> Fin is unlikely to be blocked, and then you can do A War S Mos-Lvn, A Mos-Lvn, A Sev-Mos, A Sil S Ber.  What do you think?  Too safe?  Better to make some risks?)
In the south, I'm just putting myself in position to replace Italy's units while England floods into the Med.  If you can't get a foothold in Scandanavia, England will be leading this board in 1910...
Ok thanks I think ill do that, sorry for not responding my messages havnt been sending for the last week
Oh nice!  StP open for F StP(nc)!!!
So England is totally overcommitted in the south, and yet cannot break my stalemate line (I don't think they understand that though).  Your new northern fleet is going to be a pain in their butt, keeping them pinned down protecting Nwy.  I have a plan to get you another northern unit, but it requires being clever: you move Bla-Bul, and I use my two new armies to dislodge you from there, and you retreat off the board and rebuild up in StP (maybe south coast, this time, so you have 3 fleets against Germany's 2, and you can capture Bal and break through their lines to capture Den or Kie?).  Other than that, the only option is hoping you guess cleverly and/or E/G screw up.  Getting you an extra unit up there seems the most efficient, and your F Bla isn't doing us much good anymore.
Sounds good ill move Bla-Bul. Should I attempt the Fin sup Stp into NWY?
I thought about Fin+StP, but then I remembered about coasts: Fin *can't* support an attack on Nwy: it's a fleet, and can only support an attack on a province it could itself move to, so that support is invalid 😦
so I'd instead go for GoB, which would force Swe S Bal, and allow you to instead do GoB c Lvn-Fin, and then you *do* have a unit which can support an attack on Nwy.
Oh hey, I forgot - Mun/Ber.  Just want support or are you shuffling units around for better placement?
Because if you wanted, you could do Mun-Ber, Ber-Pru, Sil-Mun, and I can support Sil-Mun to make sure you keep it, but you'd have a spring risk you'd lose Ber, and need to recapture in the fall...
But if I don't hear from you, I'll assume you just want support for Munich.
Sounds good ill grab BOT, and I think i will go for the grand shuffle. So please support sil-mun
two supports ordered for Sil-Mun.
Although, looking at the way Germany plays:  Munich is less likely to be attacked than Berlin.  If you wanted, you could just leave it open for a season and do Sil S Mun-Ber.  Then when Germany does Bal S Kie-Ber, you’ll both bounce but you’ll have shuffled Ber safely back to Pru.  Then in the fall, you can do Pru + Mun S Sil-Ber, and it’s 3 vs 2 you get in with the army, and can concentrate the fleets on the Swe/Fin area.  I’ll support whichever you choose though. It’s your risk, your choice
Ok, I'm doing Rum-Bul, Ser S Rum-Bul to get rid of that southern fleet and if you can retake Ber, rebuild.  I think you can crush Berlin: Pru + Sil S Mun-Ber, Bot-Bal cuts off their retreat.  The only way they guess their way out of it is to explicitly run away from Ber: Ber-Bal, Swe S Ber-Bal, which would be weird.  Their fleet getting crushed would really screw them though.  You'd wreak havoc on Kie/Den/Swe if they only had one fleet.  The other guess you could do is Sil S Mun-Ber, Pru S Gob-Bal.  If they try to run away and you do that, again: their fleet is crushed.  So I guess you now have a 50/50 guess at totally wrecking the german fleet! 🙂
Ummm... please try to at least put in provisional orders next time.  Kinda wrecks the game for you allies when you NMR :/
And do remember to disband F Bul instead of retreating... the rest of our northern line depends on those units existing where they are...
Of course part of this is my fault!  Apparently my order change to put in double support for Mun didn’t go through- it saved the version where I supported Sil-Mun :/
Yeah apologies for that one, I will not miss another step
If you do GoB s Pru-Bal, War-Pru , Sil s War-Pru and they work, Germany will be pretty toast
Let me know what you want Boh + Trl to do. You can clearly retake Mun or Ber.
Im sending pru to bal and war to prussia, so probably cant take ber or mun this season
Ok, sounds good.  Make sure to use GoB to support Pru-Bal, in that case!
Ah I would be pretty mad about the stab but I did kind deserve it with that missed set of orders last year. Are you splitting with Germany or England? If it's both ill prob just surrender
We could probably end the game as a 3-way tie EGA at the end of the year.  Sorry about the stab... I had gotten kinda bogged down and we were running out of time.  In a non- time limited game I would’ve been more patient (our A/R position was still better)
Did England say stupid shit to piss you off? I’d have thought you’d disband the fleets and slam into me to “punish my stab”?  Not that I’m complaining!  If you care, I’m happy to support your last unit or two to survive the game at the end, so that England can’t have the satisfaction of eliminating you...
Ha no, my thought process after a stab is more survival than revenge. Yeah that would be sick, which unit(s) do you want to keep alive?
they can't take A Mos without my help, if either you or I are in Warsaw.
so depending on how we get there, if it turns out you have both, great.  If it turns out that I have War (and Sev/Ukr underneath) I'll be supporting you in Mos (and hoping you use that unit to support War)
I’m supporting Lvn-War and also tapping Silesia, if you want War back for your last move!
Hey
Hey is for horses ( my dad used to say...) 🙂
And cattle
True dat!
I hear Italy is inclined to go after France.  Could of course be a total lie, but if they’re also asking you to join in, maybe it’s genuine? What do you hear?
Nothing from Italy other than hello
Can you do me a favor and see if he seems interested in a E+G+I pile-on to F?  You don’t need to commit to anything, but if he doesn’t seem interested then it means he’s coming after me.  And having Austria collapse early does nothing to help England’s mid game, you know? :). Just means there’s probably a huge Russia and / or Italy on the board!
I’d rather not have Italy dabbling in France because the west gets crowded much more quickly than the east. There are more centers in the east than the west.

Italy doing a lepanto to Turkey’s south is a fairly standard opening that keeps Austria and Italy neutral with each other
http://www.diplomacy-archive.com/resources/strategy/articles/lepanto.htm
http://uk.diplom.org/pouch/Zine/S1998M/Birsan/Lepanto.html
Have you heard from Germany?
I’ve heard from Germany: he says you’ve offered him an alliance, and I encouraged him to take it if he gets trustworthy vibes from you, for what it’s worth (E+G is preferable to me, given that it keeps Russia in check).
As for the Lepanto, it’s up to Italy if he wants to go that route.  I’d be fine going after Turkey with him, but if he’s... impatient, that quickly turns into “I’m bored waiting for my second build, I’ll go after Trieste now!” If you know what I mean.
Nice opening.  That’s taking the driver’s seat early!
Yeah, if only pic wasn’t there. Wasn’t expecting Pie to happen, but that’s a definite plus for Germany.
Pic is fine.  They have some guesswork to do: take the build from Por, and cover Bre with Pic (risking your convoy to Pic or you just walking into MAO, with them having no open center to build another Atlantic fleet), or else forgo a 1901 build and self bounce in Bre (leaving you looking like a genius if you guess right and support Pic-Bre, leaving them both without a build *and* way out of position). Lots of options for you (but no, no guarantees I suppose)
Yeah, it’s all mind games and I can’t participate in them directly
Yeah not much luck they’ll listen to your suggestions at *this* point 😉
Would you mind offering France some advice under the guise of trying to keep the west together longer?
To be honest: I’ve reached out but gotten radio silence from day one from them.  ¯\_(ツ)_/¯  I’ll keep trying though!
1. Point out that England can force Belgium

2. Point out that Germany won’t give up a second build for a guaranteed Burgundy

3. Point out that a bounce in Bur (i.e. A Pic - Bur & A Mun - Bur) bounces A Wal - Pic

4. Losing Bre is unlikely because of the guaranteed Bel and even if France loses it, they won’t have to destroy and will be able to move A Mar & A Pic into place next year
Scratch that. just advise France to bounce Bur because Germany won’t use two
I could try either kind of suggestion, but aren’t they more likely to worry about what you do than what Germany does?  How about this: I’ll try to get some idea about which way they’re most concerned with before I suggest which way to go, and then check in with you.  If they never respond to my messages, well that’s also an indication they’re not so great at this game and you can go for whatever attack a n00b wouldn’t see coming 😉
I’m trying to get Russia to point out Belgium because Russia and I are clearly at least at peace with our openings. You’re naturally close to Germany, and will have more info on that front.
Two seemingly separate pieces of info that form a cohesive story when joined might create a stronger narrative in France’s head
I’m just spitballing. If you disagree, please let me know so that I can orchestrate a cohesive front of information
Indeed, this is a good point. As long as France isn’t ignoring all inbound messages and wasting our glorious diplomatic efforts ;p
He was chatting with me a good bit before the turn. Germany just made a better argument closer to the deadline.
Ah ok. Maybe just skiing today or something. Some of us do have lives, I suppose.  Not me, but some of us 😦
I’m happy to pass on your suggestions as is,but will let you know before I do (once I’ve heard back from them). In return: do you have any intel on R/T relations?
so for what it's worth, France thinks I'm "an ally of Germany" and so doesn't want to share their plans with me unless I join in a 3-way alliance with them and Germany against Italy (which sounds weird, and I don't know how that would work).  I think they're just not really experienced at this game, but at the same time, don't seem too inclined to take my suggestions either.  So I *think* that any info I pass on to them might just backfire.  I *did* already mention that losing Burgundy now would cause their entire position to crumble (which is the truth), so perhaps they're already planning to cover that (I would, if I were them, probably).
Thanks. If I were them, I definitely would move to Bur. I would also move to Tyr, but I’m weird.
Oh I would *totally* move to Trl.  I thought about suggesting it to them, actually, before I talked to you about the various misdirection ideas.
It's a fun English position when France can't build a second fleet.  You're sittin' in the cat seat now!
Yeah, those French moves were interesting to say the least. Definitely makes life easier.

You’re not doing too bad yourself with Turkey being so bunched up and Russia struggling in Swe.
I didn’t even notice A Smy...
Yeah A Smy is an interesting choice: F Smy slows Italy and I down, but leaves Arm undefended against Russia.  A Arm keeps the Russian at bay, but means that frankly I could take Bul and then leave the Turk bottled up behind the Bosporus... forever, guarded by only one unit.  It’s like England with no fleets!
Fun times in both of our spheres.  You and me and Germany are looking pretty nice.  Do you and I wait until T/F are more dismantled before we talk about coordinating our next target, or do we start musing that now? 🙂
I think we wait a bit. If someone found out we were even discussing stabbing them it’d hurt our ability to take out F & T.
Welcome to the sunny Mediterranean, Prime Minister! 😉
You sent a message in general chat and the bot deleted it. You can only send messages to individuals. What did you say?
Secret plans, broadcast to everyone! ;p
Has the time yet come to see how we can work together?
So this game, I think is it called "move little armies and fleets around a board", or something else, I forget? 🙂
Do we want to split this game two ways, or three?  We’re stalemated in the Med, but I kill Russia, you kill Germany would be better than you and Germany slow me down and we end the game with 4 players, right?
But I’d be fine with an EGA draw as well
Germany and I are past the land and Mediterranean stalemate lines right now, and as you pick Russia apart, I’ll be able to blow past the northern one. Even though the game ends in 1910, I’m going to play it like it won’t.
Good luck cracking Ion!
(FYI there are stalemate lines that don’t include Tunis in the east, if you weren’t aware)
Greeting oh Sultan of Turkey!  Any thoughts on the way you’d like to play this game?  I tend to love A/T alliances, with Austria building lots of armies and Turkey going mostly fleets (because breaking through to the Ionian Sea can be pretty hard otherwise).  We could go after Russia first, and once they’re weakened, turn some force on Italy as well.  Lots of loot to split up and keep us both happy for quite some time... what do you think?
I think that idea would work very well. You will most likely need to get a truce with Italy for the first few phases to protect your back until I can get ships in the area.
Sounds good - *if* I Italy is not lying to me, I could get that truce.  What do you think we should do with Russia then? Try and trick him into leaving either Galacia or the Black Sea empty (I don’t imagine we’d be so lucky as to have him do both, but you never know, some people are just trusting like that 🙂 ).  If you control BLA, we make pretty short work of the southern Russian position: Rum and Sev fall in a year or two.  But if he’s cagey and careful, it’ll go slower.
That sounds good to me. I will talk with Russia about having a dmz in bla so I can move in.
So did Russia agree to leave BLA empty as a DMZ, and then go in anyway, or was that an arranged bounce like him and I in Gal?
No, the bounce wasn't planned. Could you support bul to rum, or are you supporting alb to gre?
Ok sorry for the slow reply, was a busy morning.  So normally I'd be supporting myself into Gre, as that's the safest thing for me to do, from a selfish perspective (but one which gets me no goodwill from an ally).  But you'd like my support for Bul-Rum, while presumably following up Con-Bul and trying for Ank-Bla again (so that Russia has to choose: do a supported attack on Rum, letting you into Bla, or else bounce you in Bla and let you have Rum) is that the proposal?
Hey Turkey: I’m sure you’re probably having an actual life and enjoying NYE, but we should make sure to coordinate for the fall, which will be adjudicated in 13hrs.  As of now, we haven’t fully agreed on anything because I haven’t heard back from you yet.
Sorry I didn't get back to you sooner. My plan is essentially what you've already laid out. I will move bul to rum, and ank to bla, but I will be moving con to smy so I can get a ship for certain.
Hey was having NYE dinner with the fam.  Sounds reasonable, I can support that move, even if I can’t guarantee that it succeeds, since Russia could order Ukr and Sev to work together on Rum. But it’s worth a shot!
Well, I guess my move didn't upload for some reason, but I see it doesn't particularly matter since you betrayed me.
Yeah, sorry about that.  It looks like it was a good choice for me though, because had I supported the move you didn't manage to submit, I would have pissed off the Russian while they still got what they wanted without my support, and had I wanted to keep going after them, they would have seen it coming.  But I apologize, I did not follow through on the support you asked for this time.
Greetings!  We probably don’t have too much interesting to say to each other this early in the game, but we both probably care what Italy and Germany do.  What have you heard?
Wow we should talk, France. Drop me a line when you feel up for it, eh?
Sorry for not replying I was a bit busy. I will move back from Italy
No worries - we all have lives!  Do you think you'll be able to trust Germany, while England is jumping all over you?  I'd be worried about an E+G tag team attack if I were you... that can end very badly if they get an english army on the continent and a german army in Burgundy...
Well, it is not something I wish to share with you as a close ally with Germany. But I proposed him a tripartite attack on Italy, all three of us gain something while I mostly get to trust Germany
Fair enough!  I'm not an avowed ally of Germany or anything - so far we've just both agreed to stay out of Tyrolia so we don't need to watch our backs.  But I understand you may need to keep some of your choices close to the vest.  However: if you do decide to go after Italy, that's something I'd like to know about, as that's right on my doorstep.  They're a natural target for the two of _us_ to go after, but I'm not sure how Germany could easily participate in that: what supply center of Italy would they hold which wouldn't stretch them right next to my own home centers?
Looks like Germany and England are against me
indeed, as I suspected and tried to warn you about (and in particular, the move to Burgundy I think I mentioned was pretty obvious).  One strategy I've sometimes found useful when getting tag-teamed by forces more numerous than my own: ask a neighbor to come to your aid, with the promise that if I start to collapse, I'll let that neighbor take my centers to spike those who are attacking me.  In this case, you could ask Italy to move Ven-Pie, so that they can support Marseille, or if you're really struggling at some point, they can take it from you and use that to help you hold E+G at bay until they inevitably start fighting each other.  In fact, once Italy is on your doorstep and E+G see this, the mere threat of someone else getting your supply centers sometimes leads to them attacking each other instead.
Nice defense!  Retreat to Gas to cut off Germany’s only allowed retreat and they have to rebuild in Berlin and Kiel, way far away... maybe you can even convince them to back off now?  Maybe even build fleets and go after England?
Build with what?
Germany’s only legal retreat is Gas.  If you choose Gas as your retreat as well, both units are destroyed.  They picked up Sweden this year as well, so if they have to disband Bur, but go up one center from Swe, they have two builds coming.  Those two could both be fleets if they wanted to go after England and give up on attacking you...
Will England go for Brest
What do you mean?  England just successfully took Brest, right?  What are you asking?
Oh wait, I realize now that Germany *will* have an available retreat: Pic.  Arg!  That is unfortunate.
So I guess you can retreat to Gas, and decide whether to keep all three of your armies, or keep the fleet and lose one of them.  I'm not sure which is more valuable.  Armies will hold Germany off longer, but that fleet may allow you to pick up Portugal and survive longer.  I could attack Italy to get them off your back, but what you really want is Italy *helping you*, not attacking you...  You're in a tight spot.
What are your standings with Germany?
I'm trying to slow them down, so that they are less able to damage you and Russia.  I don't have enough strength yet to take Munich though.
What is your relationship with Italy right now?
I am working with italy and we have agreed on something. I was thinking could you support me in munich? I am just willing to mess up and shake his position a bit
I can probably try to support that attack, but if Kie + Ber S Mun to hold, our attack won't succeed, and Mun S Par-Bur would dislodge you.  If that happens, you can retreat to Ruh, which would totally cause tons of German pain, especially as Russia comes to help, so that could still be a good risk to take.
I was going on the same line, but it is hard to expect he will go for such defensive moves
This is where "diplomacy" comes in: if I can convince them that I'm going to not attack, we have a chance.
Maybe through italy this could work, he obviously wont buy my shit
Ok, I may have convinced Germany that I was just protecting my borders, and will back off so that "we can both attack Russia".  But I have already ordered Trl+Boh S Bur-Mun.  If you don't want to make that move, let me know so I can change my orders.
That's ok and should work
well that sure annoyed the German. 🙂
Hey there - any chance you can use Munich to hit Berlin?  You could cut a support so that Russia and I could crush one of their units and press up to the German border more...
Sure, I will do that
I wasn't expecting Germany to throw their entire armed forces at just retaking Munich, but I'm kinda glad they did: they crumbled their entire defenses doing so.  Might as well keep the fleet in Mar, it's possible with Italy's position we can even keep you alive in there!
Well I did my best here
Surviving a concerted 2:1 this long is no small feat!  Wish I could’ve been able to help sooner.  For what it’s worth I’m not attacking Italy for now so that they can continue to work together with you to hold E/G off
Thanks, I have tried my best to break that alliance but to no avail. I do understand that you as Austria and Italy won't be interested in fighting Germany in early game. No hard feelings against anyone, but I do feel like revenging on Germany or England in any way possible.
Hey Russia, would you be open to not moving an army north? I’m not interested in taking StP
Austria is pushing Italy to not do a lepanto but to go west. That might mean that Turkey is going north with Austria.
Thanks for the info! I trust that you  don’t want to take StP, an army north could help me put you into Norway though
I’ll be ok in Norway without your army in StP. I view A Mos - StP in spring 1901 as a strong anti-England move and building F StP(nc) as equally anti-England
Are we still good up north? I’m not interested in fighting you right now, and would prefer to just use a fleet to capture Nrwy.

Can you promise to not send Mos northward this turn?
Of course, I wasn't trying to be  sneaky with my suggestion. I understand your concern and will not move StP North.
Have you ever considered letting Germany move into Swe and going south to the Baltic? It’s a gamble that could hurt/benefit either of you. Germany gets one center either way.
Can you offer France some advice under the guise of trying to keep him alive a little longer?
Just point out that England can force Belgium
Ha already on it XD. You and Germany planning on crushing him quickly?
I don’t think it’ll be quick by any means. I’m worried about Germany running away with it in ‘03 and want to make sure we grow at the same rate so that there isn’t another stab. I’m not a fan of chaotic variation in country strength
I even hate growing super fast because it puts a target on my back. I’m very much a slow and steady player (usually)
I tried to tip off France about Belgium for you 👌
Hey congrats on the two builds! What are your plans for the year? I imagine your more focused onm France rn, but was wondering if you had any plans to the north
Sorry. I didn’t see your message.
My builds are not north focused. I’m moving F Nrwy - NwgS to help you out.

Germany is ordering A Hol - Kie, so I don’t think you’ll be able to push Mun or Ber. Your best bet might be to bounce him in Bal
Would you consider giving me Sweden instead of moving fleet out?
Unfortunately, I cannot support you against Germany at this time. France is teetering but not gone, and I do not have an army large enough to launch an invasion of Germany.

I hope that sticking to my word in Norway and my forthrightness with intelligence will be enough to continue our amicable relationship?

Turkey is trapped in the south with that odd A Smy build, but, on the plus side, that strategic limitation opens up a Russo Turkish alliance that is far less threatening than a normal juggernaut.

Maybe you could offer Swe to Germany in exchange for you and I destroying one of his two fleets? I’d prefer to not offer the idea on my own. Also, if he does not pass it along to me, that will tell us both a great deal about his naval and northern ambitions.
Ok I understand, and yes I still consider us on good terms. How does the destroy German fleet trade work again?
Say that you can cede Swe but two German fleets on the Baltic represent ongoing threat to StP. You can ask him if he is open to destroying his second fleet in 1903.

If Germany is open to that, the only way I see it happening is if I support you into Swe in spring 1903, he destroys, and then I support him back into Swe in fall 1903.
Im assuming its an all out attack on france kind of turn?
Yes. You should consider doing something like self bouncing in Lithuania. Germany is coming for you.
You mean Livonia? Wait where am I getting attacked? Thanks for the heads-up I have some italian intelligence you may want.
I don’t know where he’s attacking you. Self bouncing up there delays his attack into StP.

What’s the Italian intelligence
Not sure what the Italian is scheming. They told me they were going lepanto, but I haven't been negotiating with them much.
Sorry I failed to tip you off about Italy moving west, I second guessed telling you bc I wasn't sure it was accurate. Do you think that will be harmful to you? Or can you use the italians to help finish off france? It looks like you have Spain in the bag, but mar and par might be a little more challenging. What do you have planned for the fleet heading north?
The Italians can’t help me.

It is just sitting there. It’s meant to not threaten Swe and to hold Nth
What's the play in 1904? Are you threatening Denmark?
No, I’m just holding Nth.

Thank you for building on the south coast instead of the north. I request that you do not put an army in StP. I have stayed out of Norway because you have not put an army in StP or a fleet in StP(NC).

I made a similar request to Germany last year. I asked that he take StP with a fleet instead of an army, and then warned you of an attack.
I used the wrong set of words. I meant securing Nth instead of holding it. I’m not currently planning on taking StP or supporting an attack there.

My apologies for using the wrong word. I know that there is a big difference between holding and securing.
Hey England, Want me to support you into Sweden this spring?
No thank you
Ok just let me know 👌
Are you too tied to Germany to betray them currently? I quit working with them after they invaded Lvn, and would much rather work with you
Congrats on getting Tun from the Italians. Do you think you will be able to hold it or are the italians and austrians working to jointly kick you out?
I want to believe you, but you’re working with Austria to cross the stalemate line. If I stabbed Germany, I’d be sealing my own fate. You’d be able to roll him up and I couldn’t hold you and Italy off.
If you take action in the spring to fight Austria, I’ll back you over Germany, but I need to see that you’re committed to breaking the stalemate line.
I’ve been honest with you and helped you all game.
That sucks.
I can’t believe Austria stabbed you
Ha fr dude, it looks like you are now working with Austria which seems like a pretty good play. If you stop attacking me to the north I will support you into sweden, and put up a stink against Austria to the south, which should prob give you chance of solo win
I’m not with Austria?
Ok well then I Would love to work with you and ask again for no attack on StP in exchange for Sweden
I am not going to advance beyond StP. If you lose Moscow to Austria, then Austria can’t be killed.

I will try to get Germany on board as well
Greetings Sultan!

As your neighbor I would like to propose an alliance! What are your views on the board so far?
I think an alliance would be great! Perhaps a dmz in the Black Sea would be a good idea to solidify this alliance?

As for my views on the board, my first moves will be Western into the Balkans and Mediterranean Sea.
Sounds good lets call a dmz in the black sea
What's our move this year?
I've been away from the game for a while
Not sure yet, what are your thoughts?
Well I'm pretty worried about Germany attacking me (and Austria to a lesser extent) so im headed west. It looks like Italy's landing a army in Syr this fall unless you can stop it
That sounds good to me. I'll move to defend against Italy while you move west. If it's not too much too ask, I'd like to request that you withdraw your fleet from bla.
Oh sorry missed the msg to move out of bl sea ill do that this turn. I did bring my army down into Armenia, To help you expel the Italian. It looks like Austria and Italy are working together. If we have a chance in the region you should probably use smy to protect con. We can't afford to lose con.
I'll defend con from both ank and smy.
Hey sorry for stabbing you earlier, it was an especially hard choice since Turkey is usually my country of choice. It's cool we got to do this study huh?
Greetings My Good Frenchman! 

How are your opening moves looking? I would love a solid Russo-French relationship so I’ll start off with some intel for you: Italy is headed west for you
Hi there,

How is that going to work? Austria vs turkey without Italy?
Ha I honestly don't know, just trying to tip you off
How'd the first turn go for you? I was hoping to make gains in Gal and BLA but was bounced out. Do you think E/G are working against you?
I have expected a bounce in Pie because you and another power told me so
Looks like a conspiracy here against me
Well if you makes it feel any better I think I might have been used as a pawn in that conspiracy, bc I was legitimately trying to protect you. I hope E/G don't have another country in their pocket, who else told you about Italy going west?
Just two of you. But their alliance will go for you after, as it is the most likely. Therefore I suggest we ally against Germany mostly
Yeah probably not a bad idea, we'll have to coordinate in the coming years
Any success switching England or Germany to your side
Nah, I am going to give some centers to england instead and hope i can survive
Well you can keep spain and mar, but you lose Paris sadly
Huh, never mind. Congrats on not losing Paris. What are your plans for next year, especially with Italy headed west?
My plans rely heavily on praying...
Keep on preying brother! For what its worth I doubt your dead this turn bc i bet you can get italy to protect you from england since thye dont want English controlled spain
That's what i did
Hey
Hello
Hello France, world you like to discuss working together?
Hello there, I am interested, mostly in keeping the  channel empty for now and we could work together later if this works. Can we agree not to move in the channel
Yes, that sounds great
I’m also willing to exchange not building F Yor for you not building F Bre at the end of 1901.
Sorry, F Liv
Yeah, that works for me
You might want to hit Pie. Austria and Italy keep talking about you being a threat for some unknown reason. Austria is really pushing for Italy to go west instead of to turkey.
Why would austria want italy move west?
I don’t know. I’m a little annoyed.
I told Italy about the Lepanto opening and am hoping that will solve Italy going west. Either way, I don’t see Italy and Austria being very strong long-term.
I guess we will see what happens
Is there any way of me actually ending this conflict?
Can we agree on peace? What are your demands?
Neutrality in exchange for current holdings, Spain, and Portugal. You can hold Paris and marseille with just armies of Italy backs off
Thats a bit too much, can I keep Spain and i help you get some german centers?
Any deals?
